"Skimmed Milk Powder – Gift of the European Economic Community to U1IHCR – for free distribution to the people of Cyprus".
"Skinned Milk Pov;der - Gift of the European Economic Corzaunity to UlTrlCR – r".
tfsrr free distribution to the people of Cyprus".
"Skimned Llilk Povrder - Gift of the European Economic Coanauiity to U17HCR - for free distribution to the people of Cyprus"#
"Skimmed 13.1k Pender - Gift ef the Eurspean Eoenesao Cenrnaaity t» UIJHCR - far frse distribution to the peeple ef Cyprus".
"Skimmed Milk Powder – Gift of the European Economic Community to UNHCR – for free distribution to the people of Cyprus".
"Skimmed Milk Powder - Gift of the European Economic Community to UNHCR - for free distribution to the people of Cyprus'*.
"Skimmed Milk Powder - Gift of the European Economic Community to UUHCR – for free distribution to the people of Cyprus"#
"Skimmed Milk Powder - Gift of the European Economic Community to UNHCR - for freo distribution to the people of Cyprus".
COMMISSION DECISION of 1 October 1974
on the supply of skimmed milk powder to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees as emergency
food aid for distribution to displaced persons in Cyprus
(Only the French and Dutch texts are authentic)
of 1 October 1974
on the supply of skimmed milk powder to the Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees as emergency food aid for distribution to displaced persons in Cyprus
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community!
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 804/68^"^ of 27 June 1968
on the common organization of the market in cilk and milk products, as (2)
lastamendedbyRegulation(EEC)No662/74 jandinparticularArtic­ les 7(5) and. 28 thereof?
V/hereas Council Regulation (EEC) No 2332/7^"^ of 12 September 197^- on
the supply of skimmed milk powder to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees as food aid for distribution to displaced persons in Cyprus provides for the delivery to the abovementioned orga­ nization for distribution to displaced persons in Cyprus, of 200 metric tons of skimmed milk powder to be taken from the 6 000 metric tons of skimmed milk powder constituting the reserve provided for in Regulation (EEC) No 1827/7^^ of 11 July 1974 on the supply of skimmed milk pow­ der as food aid to certain developing countries and international orga­ nizations f
Whereas Article 5 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1826/74^ of 11 July
197^ laying down the general rules for the supply of skimmed milk powder
as food aid to certain developing countries and international organiza­
tions provides that tenders must be invited for the purpose of effecting
such deliveries, except in the casec of emergency aid, where private contracts may be negotiated:
Whereas emergency aid is required since there are a large number of displaced persons in Cyprus who are critically short of foodj whereas a private contract should therefore be negotiated}
Whereas the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the Opinion of the Management Committee for Milk and Milk Products?
1. In accordance with Regulation (EE?) No 2332/7^t 200 metric tons of skimmed milk powder shall be delivered to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for distribution to displaced persons in Cyprus.
2. The skimmed milk powder shall be collected from the Belgian inter­ vention agency.
3- The skimmed milk powder shall meet the requirements as to quality and packing laid down in Annex I to Commission Regulation (EEC) No 1108/68^ of 27 July 19^8 on detailed rules of application for pu­
blic storage of skimmed milk powderT as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No I636/7k^7K
The packing of the skimmed milk powder shall be marked, in letters at least two centimetres high, with the words:
"Skimmed milk powder – Gift of the European Economic Community to UNHCR - for free distribution to the people of Cyprus".
Delivery shall be effected from the port of Antwerp on a date fixed by the Belgian intervention agency which must be later than l4 October and earlier than 20 October 1974.
The goods shall be regarded as delivered when they are deposited in the port of shipment at a point designated by the recipient country or its agent easily accessible to the ship.
1. The Belgian intervention agency shall determine the costs of trans­ porting the skimmed milk powder by concluding a private contract on the least onerous termsf having regard to the existing transport possibilities.
2. The Belgian intervention agency shall forward to the Commission without delay a copy of such contract or contracts.
No refund or compensatory amount (whether monetary or "accession") shall be granted in respect of the skimmed milk powder delivered pur­ suant to this Decision.
This Decision is addressed to the Kingdom of Belgium*
For the Commission The President
''Skimmed milk powder - Gift of the European Economic Community to UNHCR - for free distribution to the people of Cyprus'.'
