per far fronte a tali spese.
(Presented to the Council "by the Commission)
Having regard to the Treaty establi shing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular the record naragraph of Article 101 thereof;
Having regard to the draft prepare^ h" the Commission;
whereas, in orde.r to carry out its task, the Cornerity mist establish with
o+her countries nnd with international orgsaiisatiens all such contacts o.p ^are likely to farther progress in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy;
Whereas it is desirable for this purpose that the Community conclude with the International Atonic Energy Agency an r <-reenent for cooperation with a view to defining the legal framework of the relations which have been
•*>r^flTesM.'wjly established between the Corrromity nrd the Agency; HIS 1OECTT)ED "J? FOLLOWS . '
In its negotiations with the IAEA on the conclusion of an agreement for cooperation with the ain of providing a legal fra"ietrork for all relations
between the Comrnnity and the Agency, the Cor^ission shall co^nly with the directives annexed to this "Decision.
 1 , The agreement ghonld provide for close cooperation and regular consultation in matters of common interest. The two parties should erdeavov.r to harmonize
activities insofar «»s this is compatible with their nature and aims. .
?. The agreement should provide that representatives of the Comrronity shall be invjted to attend the General Conference of the Agency, and to taVe part, without the right to vote, in the deliberations of that body concerning matters or the agenda which are of interest to the Community. It should further provide that the Agency Secr«+ iriat and the Commission shall take
the appropriate steps to ensure reciprocal representation at meetings convened under their respective aiis~5 ces , except where such meetings are of an internal nature .
% The agreement should stipulate that, subject to such restrictions and
arrangements as either party may consider necessary to safeguard the confidential nature of certain information , the Agency and the Community gh?ll carry out
p "broad erchange of information arc) documents , end . combine their efforts to
r*».Ve the bent possible 'use of their resources in the collection , analysis
nnd dissemination, of information.
fi. The agreement should stipulate t*«t the Agency and the Community shall
t o^ch oth«r as and when retjuired on the best way of using each other's
fown.oer , erfiument or personnel in fields of common interest ; the necessary arrangements in this connection would be made by the Agency Secretariat and'
^the Commission. If this cooperation involves any substantial expenditure, consultations shall be held between the Community and the Agency to determine '
the most equitable way of covering such expenditure. , . .
c. The 'agreement should stipulate that the Commission and the Director-Ooneral of the Agency shall take the necessary steps to ensure that the agreement is , properly implemented.
