Accord intérimaire
NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE EEC AND THE ACP STATES Transitional measures to. be implemented after 31 January 1975
(Conmissiou Communication to the Council)
I. Introduction 1 II. Status quo arrangements 2 III. Advance entry into force of certain provisions
of the SEC-AC? Convention 7 IV . Conclusions 10
Draft EEC-AASM Council of Association decision on transitional measures to be applied after 1
February 1975
Draft Council regulation extending the treatment applicable to certain agricultural products originating in the AASM, OCT and ESTAF
Draft decision of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the ECSC, meeting in the Council, relating to tariff preferences for SCSC products originating in
the AASM and the OCT
Draft EEC-5STAF Association Council decision on transitional measures to be applied after
1 February 1975
Draft Council decision on transitional measures
to be applied after 1 February 1975 to the OCT Draft Council decision on maintaining the status quo provisions of the Act concerning the Conditions of Accession and the Adjustments to the Treaties Draft joint act of the Contracting Parties on the setting up of au interim EEC-ACP Committee
Pending the entry into force of the future EEC-ACP Convention it is necessary for transitional measures to be introduced from 1 February 1975» the day following the date of expiry of the Yaounde Convention, the Arusha Agreement and the status quo arrangements provided for in the Treaty of Accession .
These measures are to cover the Community's relations with :
i. the AASM (Yaounde Convention, Article 62);
ii*. the East African States (Arusha Agreement , Article 36 );
iii. the other countries referred to in Protocol No 22 (Treaty of
iv« the OCT (Council Decision of 29 September 1970 (70/5^9/EEC)
v. the dependencies (Treaty of Accession, Article 119(3))?
vi. certain associable third countries participating in the EEC-
The Commission considers that the best solution will be to apply certain provisions of the future EEC-ACP Convention in advance, especially in the trade sector. • However, to this end even if the new EEC-ACP Convention is signed soon, a certain period will be necessary in order to take the measures required in respect of regu­ lations and technical matters. The possibility of any gap as from 1 February 1975 will therefore have to be avoided. In these circumstances the Commission considers that it is necessary to have two successive transitional phases t
1. Upon the signature of the Convention the Contracting Parties should agree on the date from which certain provisions of the new
Convention , to be specified in an interim agreement , will be applied in advance .
2. Between 1 February 1975 and the date referred to above, status quo arrangements should be established for an initial traiisitional phase to extend certain provisions resulting from the arrangements in force on the basis of the legal instruments referred to above.
OCT and the dependencies *
.. The proposals contained in this paper also cover relations withthe
 No decision is called for in connection with the associable third countries participating in the negotiations , as they will continue to be considered as- third countries during the first phase*
1.1 . Arrangements for imports into the E5C and the AASM
The provisions of the whole of Title I of the Yaounde Con­ vention, together with Protocols Nos 1 to 5, constituted the basis of the arrangements for trade between the partners . TheS3 provisions were supplemented by implementing measures decided on by the Council of Association, in particular as regards the definition of origin and the information and consultation system.
Despite the differences that clearly exist between these arrangements and what are to be the future ACP arrangements, the situation at 31 January 1975 will have to be maintained until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields.
Provision should be made for a decision of the Council of Association extending for the duration of the first transi­ tional phase the application of the whole of Title I of the Yaounde Convention, Protocols Nos 1 to 5, Annexes II, III, X and XI, and the decisions takeu by the Association Council necessary for the application of those provisions .
- 3 - VIIl/lit75/7^-E Financial and technical cooperation :
The relevant provisions contained in Title II of the Con­ vention, in Protocols Nos 6 and 7 and in Annexes IV and
XII could remain applicable beyond 31 January 1975*
No special decision is required for committing the balance of the third EDF in favour of the AASM; such commitment is
provided for in the internal financial agreement governing that Fund .
As regards the EIB, the Community could - as it did during the period between the two Yaounde Conventions - ask that body to carry on committing its own resources in favour of the AASM, provided that the ceiling of 90 million u.a« has not been reached
January 1975 * which is probable . Other provisions
The provisions relating to the following would also be maintained in fdrce beyond 31 January 1975 J
establishment , services , payments and capital ; institutions :
certain general and final provisions ;
the decisions adopted by the Council of Association
for the purposes of implementing the provisions listed above .
See ! draft decision of the EEC-AASM Council of Association
relating to the provisions proposed in points 1.1 <
1.2 . and 1*3 * above ,
which is contained in Annex I *
Unilateral measures relating to the agricultural products the Convention
It should be noted that the period of application of the regulations adopted by the Community in implementation of Article 2(2) and Protocol No 1 to the Yaounde Convention
is linked to the date of expiry of the latter, namely 31 January 1975 *
The Commission herewith submits to the Council of the European Communities the proposals necessary for fulfilling the commitments to be undertaken in respect of the products referred to in Article 2(2) of the Yaounde Convention for the duration of the first transitional phase#
See : proposal for Council regulation in Annex II attached.
Arrangements for ECSC products
The Agreement relating to ECSC products, which was concluded
between the Member States of
AASM at the same time a6 the
expire on 31 January 1975 *
express provision for extension. Such extension could be effected only by the conclusion of a new Agreement, which would have to be ratified by the Parliaments of the Member States . This solution is obviously out of the question . However, the Member States cau take a unilateral decision to continue applying provisions which are equivalent to those of Article 1 of the Agreement (exemption from customs duties and charges havixig equivalent effect) for the duration of the transitional measures#
See : draft decision of the Member States in Annex III attached •
the ECSC, the Community and the Yaounde Convention, will also In that Agreement there is no
The provisions of the whole of Title I of the Arusha Agreement, together with Protocols Nos 1 to 5» constituted the basis of the arrangements for trade between the partners These provisions were supplemented by implementing measures decided on by the Association Council, in particular as regards the definition of origin.
Despite the differences that clearly exist between these arrangements and what are to be the future ACP arrangements, the situation at 31 January 1975 will have to be maintained until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields*
Provision should be made for a decision of the Association Council extending for the duration of the first transitional
phase the application of the whole of Title I of the Arusha Agreement, Protocols Nos 1 to 5» Annexes I, II, III, V and VI, and the decisions taken by the Association Council necessary for the application of those provisions*
2*2* Other provisions
In addition, the provisions relating to the following can be extended from 31 January 1975 *
establishment and services) 'payments and capital;
certain general and final provisions;
the decisions adopted by the Association Council for* the purposes of implementing provisions listed above *
See : draft decision of the EEC-ESTAF Association Council in Annex IV attached relating to the proposals made in points 2*1* and 2.2. above.
Unilateral measures relating to the agricultural products referred to in Article 2(1) of the Agreement : it should be noted that the period of application of the regulations adopted by the Community in implementation of Article 2(2)
of the Agreement is linked to the date of expiry of the latter.
The Commission herewith submits to the Council of the
European Communities the proposals necessary for fulfilling
the for See
commitments to be undertaken in respect of these products the duration of the first transitional phase.
: proposal for Council regulation in Annex II attached.
tty a decision of the Council of the European Communities, Titles I to III , Article 38 and the annexes to the Council Decision of 29 September 1970 may be extended until the date of entry into force of the provisions to be adopted by the Council to lead on from those of the said Decision; this date will coincide with that on which certain provisions of the EEC-ACP Convention are put into force in advance .
See : draft decision of the Council of the European Commun- \
ities in Annex V attached.
As regards the agricultural products referred to in Article 2(2) of the above Council Decision of 29 September 1970, the transitional measures are proposed in the context of the proposal for a Council regulation set out in Annex II attached.
k. Countries and territories referred to in Article 2^ of the Act of Accession
5. States referred to in Article 109 of the Act of Accession
In accordance with Articles 115(3) and 119(3)» the Council of the European Communities can take a decision to extend the status quo arrangements provided for in those Articles until the date of the advance entry into force of certain provisions
1 of the EEC-ACP Convention .
See : draft decision of the Council of the European Communities in Annex VI attached.
As regards the relations between the United Kingdom and the
states, countries and territories referred to in paragraphs b and 5, it is for the United Kingdom to take any measures which prove necessary.
III. ADVANCE EiiTRY IwTO FORCR OF CERTAIh PROVISIONS OF THE EEC/ACP CONVENTION (second transitional phase)
If the Contracting Parties agree to adopting the solution of an interim Agreement to implement in advance certain provisions of the EEC-ACP Convention (see Introduction, paragraph 1 ) at a date to be agreed and after an initial status quo phase , the Commission will put forward the appro­ priate proposals, covering in particular the field of trade, in sufficient time to the Council.
1.2* Other measures
The Commission considers that further transitional measures based on the future Convention should be adopted as soon as the future Convention has been signed; those measures would relate to the following areas :
A. Financial and technical cooperation
Transitional provisions will have to be adopted to enable preparations to be made, in agreement with the ACP States, for the implementation of the fourth EDF in favour of all the ACP States, in accordance with the rules, powers and procedures laid down in the texts of the Convention*
1 These provisions relate to the following :
The relevant Community departments will be able , as soon as the new Convention and the implementing texts internal to the Community have been signed, to programme Community aid in conjunction with the relevant authorities of each ACP State .
The aid programmes in question could also be the subject, during the transitional phase , of discussions between the representatives of each ACP State and the representatives of the Community.
Similar provisions were adopted in 1969, for preparations
for the implementation of the third EDF, and brought to the notice of the AASM in a Community Declaration published in
the minutes of the Negotiations.
Submission of projects
The Community would agree to requests for the financing of projects and programmes from the fourth EDF or from the EIB's
own resources being submitted as from the signature of the new Convention and its implementing texts*
The relevant departments of the Community institutions could, during the transitional phase , appraise the projects and
programmes submitted in conjunction with the relevant ACP bodies •
These departments will take all necessary steps to prepare also , in so far as possible , the financing agreements and invitation to tender dossiers relating to those projects.
Preparation of financing decisions
bodies responsible for taking financing decisions the transitional period , examine any projects
in respect of which appraisal has been completed
The Community
could , during
in the meantime . However , such projects or programmes
cannot be definitively approved and financing decisions taken on them until after the entry into force of the new Convention.
Setting up of an Interim Committee
The Commission considers that further transitional measures designed inter alia to prepare for the implementation of the future Convention should moreover be adopted upon the signa­ ture thereof . To this end , the Community and the ACP States will be able to decide, through a joint act such as an exchange of letters , to set up an Interim Committee .
During the first transitional phase the Committee would deal with s
the draft rules of procedure of the Association Council and Committee ;
the procedures for presenting the Convention to the GATT; preparations for implementing the rules of origin , the system of stabilizing export earnings and industrial
and trade cooperation .
 During the second transitional period it will also be required to apply the provisions of the Convention which enter into force in advance and , in particular , will hold the exchanges of views and consultations specified in those provisions *
See : draft joint act of the Community and the ACP States in Annex VII attached *
OCT (including the countries and territories referred to in the Act of Accession , Article 2^)
2.1 . A decision of the Council of the European Communities will have to adopt provisions similar to those which are to be laid down in respect of the ACP States and which are referred to in paragraph 1.1 . above .
A Commission proposal in this connection will be presen ted to tie-Council at the appropriate time after the EEC ACP Convention has been signed.
Once the EEC-ACP Convention has been signed , transition al provisions for financial and technical cooperation similar to those adopted in respect of the ACP States
( see parat-raph 1.2 . A. above ) cau be adopted in respect of the OCT, enabling preparations to be made for implementing the fourth EDF .
'' ''' ■ 1 1 ..i.i ■i.i Act of Accession
EEC-AASM Agreement on ECSC products (Annex III ).
Decision of the EEC-ESTAF Association Council ext­ ending the term of validity of certain provisions
of the Arusha Agreement ( Annex IV );
Agricultural products * Council Régulation on agri­ cultural products (Annex II )
Decision of the Council of the European Communities extending the term of validity pf the provisions of the Decision of 29 September 1970 (Annex V);
Agricultural products : Council Régulation on agri­ cultural products (Annex II).
ECSC products : Decision of the Member States ( Annex III )
Countries and territories referred to in Article 2^ of the
Decision of the EEC-AASM Council of Association , extending the term of validity of certain provisions of the Yaounde Convention ( Annex I );
Regulation of the Council of the European Communities on agricultural products (Annex II )}
To sum up, the Commission proposes to establish transitional arrangements covering relations with all the ACP States and OCT and dependencies until the entry into force of the EEC- ACP Convention on the basis of the following provisions and decision procedures :
I. First transitional phase (from 1 February 1975 until the date
of 1.
entry into force of the interim EEC-ACP Agreement) : AASM
iii. Decision of the Member States of the ECSC extending the term of validity of certain provisions of the
5. Commonwealth countries referred to in Article 109 of the Act of Accession
Decision of the Council of the European Communities extending the term of validity of the status quo arrangements laid down itt the said Act. (Annex VI)
Advance entry into force , on a date to be agreed , of certain provisions of the EEC-ACP Convention by means of
an interim time as the
The content ACP States.
E5C-AASM Agreement, to be signed at the same EEC-ACP Convention itself ..
of this Agreement is to be agreed with the
6. Other associable third countries taking part in the EEC-ACP *
negotiations : there is no provision for any decision, these
countries being treated as third countries during the first
' II. Second transitional phase (until the entry into force of the
Setting up of an interim ESC- ACP Committee t to be
provided for by a joint EEC-ACP ct as soon as the Convention is signed : provided for in Annex VII.
In other words, the following acts are to be provided for :
I« Upon the date of signing the EEC-ACP Convention :
i . interim EEC-ACP Agreement ( to be drawn up );
li* joint EEC-ACP Act setting up an interim Committee (Annex VII).
II. Before 31 January 1975 * status quo measures J
Decision of the EEC-AASM Council of Association (Annex I); Decision of the EICC-ESTAF Association Council (Annex IV); Council Decisions on :
agricultural régulations (Annex II);
the Agreement between the Member States and the AASM
on ECSC products ( Annex III );
extension of the term of validity of the status quo arrangements laid down in the Act of Accession (Annex VI).
III . Before the entry into force of the interim - EEC-ACP Agreement :
Council Decision applying to all the OCT (associated and dependencies) provisions similar to those in the trade part of the said interim Agreement, to be drawn up at the appropriate time .
Having regard to the Convention of Association signed at Yaounde on 29 July 1969i and in particular Article 62(2 ) thereof }
Desirous of ensuring the continuity of the Association until the entry into force of the EEC-ACP Convention,
The following shall remain applicable beyond 31 January 1975
(l) the provisions relating to trade contained in Title I of the Convention , • in Protocols Nos 1 to 5 thereto and in Annexes II, III, X and XI;
(2^ the provisions relating to financial and technical, cooperation contained in Title II of the Convention, in Protocols Nos 6 and 7 thereto and in Annexes IV and XII;
(3) the provisions relating to establishment , services , payments and capital movements contained in Title III of the Convention and in Annexes V and VI :
(k) the provisions relating to institutions contained in Title IV of the Convention, in Protocols Nos 8 and 10 thereto and in Annexes VIII and IX;
(5) the general and final provisions contained in Articles 56, 57, 60,62(2), 6k , 65 and 66 of Title V, in Protocol No 9 and in Annexes VII, XIII and XIV;
(6) the decisions adopted by the Council of Association for the purpose of implementing the provisions referred to above*
This Decision shall apply until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields or until JO June 1975t whichever is the earlier.
The Associated States , the Member States and the Community shall
each respectively for its part, take the measures required for I
implementation of this Decision.
This Decision shall enter into force on 1 February 1975*
President of the Council Association
of ...
extending the treatment applicable to certain agricultural products originating in the Associated African States t Madagascar and Mauritius , in
the Overseas Countries and Territories and in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article ^3 thereof;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission ;
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament1 ;
Whereas the Convention of Association2 signed on 29 July 19&9 between the European Economic Community and the African States and Madagascar associated with that Community provides that for such agricultural products as come under a common organization of the market and where the Associated States have an economic interest in exporting such products, the Community shall lay down import arrangements for the produots originating in those States which shall be more favourable than the general treatment applied to identical products originating in third countries,
Whereas* pursuant to the Association Agreement on the accession of Mauritius to the Yaounde Convention, signed on 12 May 1972, the pro­ visions of the Yaounde Convention are applicable to Mauritius;
Whereas the Council Decision^ of 29 September 1970 on the Association of the Overseas Countries and Territories with the European Economic Commun­ ity lays down identical provisions in respect of agricultural products originating in those countries and territories ;
Whereas the Agreementk establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republip of Kenya lays down identical provisions in respect of agricultural products originating in thosa States ;
Whereas ... ,_6
Council Regulations (EEC) No 517/70«5 of 17 March 1970 and No 652/71 j of 30 March 1971 on the treatment applicable to beef and veal '
 originating in the African States and Madagascar (AASM) or the Overseas Countries and Territories (OCT), and in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya,
Council Regulations (ESC) No 522/70*' of 17 March 1970 and No
653/ 71 2 of 30 March 1971 on the treatment applicable to processed cereal and rice products originating in the AASM or the OCT and
in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya, as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1036/723 of 18 May 1972,
Council Regulations ( EEC ) No 519/ 70k of 17 March 1970 and No 65^/ 71^ of 30 March 1971 oh the treatment applicable to processed
fruit and vegetable products originating in the AASM or the OCT and in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya ,
Council Regulation (EEC) No 2^/71^ of 1 February 1971 and No 655/
717 of 30 March 1971 on the treatment applicable to unmanufactured tobacco originating in the AASrf or the OCT and in the United Repub­ lic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya,
Council Regulations (EEC) No 2738/738 of 8 October 1973» amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 859/72^ of 25 April 1972, and No 2739/ 7310 of 8 October 1973, amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 860/ 7211 of 25 April 1972, on the treatment applicable to certain fruit and vegetables originating in the AASM or the OCT and in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya .
Council Regulation (3SC) No 656/7112 of J>0 March 1971, as amended by Regulation ( ESC ) No 1^46/ 72 1 Ъ of 10 July 1972 , on the treatment applicable to maize originating in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya,
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1316/7114 of 21 June 1971 on the treat­ ment applicable to fish products originating in the AASM or the OCT,
Counciil Regulation ( EEC ) No 518/ 70 of 17 March 1970 on the treatment applicable to oleaginous products originating in the AASM or the OCT,
Council Regulation (EEC) No 5^0/70ρ of 20 March 1970 on the treatment applicable to rice and broken rice originating in the AASM or the OCT,
Council Regulation (ESC) No 520/70^ of 17 March 1970 laying down special provisions for the import of goods covered by Regulation (EEC) No 1039/69 originating in the AASM or the OCT.
L «; Council Regulations ( EEC ) No 521 / 70 of 17 March 1970 and No 2^5/ 71
of 1 February 1971 providing for special derogations in respect of imports into the French Overseas. Departments of certain agricultural products originating in the AASM or the OCT,
have been adopted pursuant to these undertakings;
Whereas, following the Decisions of the Council of Association of the Yaounde Convention and the Association Council of the Arusha Agreement on the transitional measures to 4e applied after 31 January 1975» the undertakings given by the Community in respect of the Associated African States and Madagascar and the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya have been extended until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields or until 30 June 1975 » whichever is the earlier ;
Whereas, by Council Decision of .... on the transitional measures concerning the Overseas Countries and Territories to be applied after 31 January 1975, the undertakings in respect of those countries and territories have been extended until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the
same fields or until 30 June 1975^whichever is the earlier;
Whereas the reasons for according such treatment are still valid ; whereas such treatment should be maintained throughout the period during which the
Community 's undertakings in respect of those Associated States , and Territories are valid ;
Whereas consultations have been held with the Associated States; HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION :
The second and third paragraphe
of Article 2 of Regulation (SEC) No 517/70
and the second paragraph
of Article 3 of Régulation (EEC) No 2^^/71
are replaced by the following paragraph "It shall be applicable :
in respect of products originating in the Associated African States and Madagascar and in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya, until the entry into force of the
new provisions relating to the same fields or until 30 June 1975, whichever is the earlier ;
in respect of products originating in the Overseas Countries and Territories associated with the Community , until the entry i > to force of the provisions which are to replace the Council Decision of 29 September 1970 or until 30 June 1975 » whichever is the earlier ."
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all the Member States of the Community as originally constituted.
Done at Brussels ,
For the Council The President
Whereas the Member States have concluded with each other the Treaty- establishing the European Coal and Steel Community;
Whereas the Convention of Association between the European Economic Community as originally constituted and the AASM aud Council Decision . No 70/5^9 of 29 September 1970 on the Association of the OCT expire
on 31 January 1975 ;
Having regard to Decision No . . ./75 of the EEC-AASM Council of Association and Council Decision No . ../ 75 on transitional measures
to be implemented from 1 February 1975 in the relations with the AASM and the OCT respectively ;
Desiring to continue to apply , autonomously and concurrently , the tariff reductions agreed in the present Convention having regard to the current negotiations for the renewal of that Convention;
In agreement with the Commission ; HAVE DECIDED :
1. From 1 February 1975» the duties applicable in the Community as originally constituted to imports of products covered by the European Coal and Steel Community and originating in the AASM or the OCT, or the levying of such duties , shall be suspended .
2« The basic duties referred to in this Decision are the duties actually applied on 1 January 1972 .
The provisions laying down the rules of origin for the application of the Convention of Association between the European Economic Community as originally constituted and the AASM and for the imple­ mentation of Council Decision No 70/5^9 of 29 September 1970 on the Association of the OCT shall be applicable to the products referred to in this Decision .
The Member States shall decide by mutual agreement on any safeguard measures suggested by one or more Member States or by the Commission.
This Decision shall expire at the same time as the transitional measures provided for in Decision No . . ./ 75 of the EEC-AASM Council of Association and in Council Decision No .../75 as regards the Association of the OCT.
The Member States shall take all the measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision .
Done at Brussels .
The President
(k) the
(5) the . 36,
provisions relating to institutions contained in Title IV in Annex IV to the Agreement ;
general and final provisions in Articles 30 , 31 • 32 , 35(2 ), 37 and 38 and in Annexes VIII and IX;
the provisions in Title II of
Having regard to the Association Agreement signed at Arusha on 2^ September 1969 , and in particular Article 36(2 ) thereof ;
Desiring to ensure the continuity of the Association until the entry into force of the EEC-ACP Convention;
The following shall remain applicable beyond 31 January 1975 s
(1) the provisions relating to trade contained in Title I of the Agreement, in Protocols Nos 1 to 5 thereto and in Annexes I,
II, III, V and
relating to establishment and services contained the Agreement ;
relating to payments and capital movements
the provisions
contained in Title III and in Annex VI to the Agreement;
decisions adopted by the Association Council for the
(6) the
purposes of implementing the provisions referred to above.
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 13& thereof;
Whereas the Council Decision of 29 September 1970 on the Association of the OCT with the EEC expires on 31 January 1975 ;
Whereas the provisions which are to replace this Decision cannot enter into force until after that date ;
Whereas pending the entry into force of these provisions, this Decision should be maintained in force provisionally;
The provisions of the Council Decision of 29 September 1970 on the Association of the OCT with the EEC and of its Annexes, and the arrangements for their implementation, shall remain applicable beyond 31 January 1975 until the entry into force of the provisions which are to replace this Decision or until 30 June 1975 I whichever is the earlier .
This Decision shall apply until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields or until JO June 1975, whichever is the earlier .
The Associated States , the Member States and the Community shall , each respectively for its part, take the measures required for the implementation of this Decision .
This Decision shall enter into force on 1 February 1975*
President of the Association Council
« Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic
Community ;
Having regard to the Act concerning the Conditions of Accession and the Adjustments to the Treaties , and in particular Articles 115(3 ) ' and 119(3 ) thereof ;
Having regard to the Opinion of the Commission,
Whereas the Council of Association, set up by the Convention of Association between the EEC and the AASM, signed in Yaounde on
29 July 1969, and the Association Council set up the Association Agreement between the EEC and the East African countries, signed
in Arusha on 2^ September 1969, have implemented the transitional provisions laid down in Article 62 of that Convention of Association and in Article 36 of that Association Agreement,
The arrangements provided for in Articles 109 to 114 and Article 119 of the Act of Accession shall be maintained until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields or until
30 June 1975* whichever is the earlier.
A joint act of the Contracting Parties (or an exchange of letters) will %
deal with the setting up of an interim EEC-ACP Committee and could contain the following provisions :
1* The interim Committee shall be responsible for preparing the entry into force of the EEC-ACP Convention, and in particular :
i. the draft rules of procedure of the Association Council and Committee
ii. the procedures for presenting the Convention to the GATT;
iii. the rules of origin;
the export earnings stabilization system: industrial coopération;
It 6hall also be responsible for applying certain provisions of the Convention where they enter into force in advance of the Convention under the interim EEC-ACP Agreement , including the exchanges of views arid consultations relating thereto*
It shall adopt its working procedures*
It shall begin to operate with effect from the date ou which the EEC- ACP Convention is signed*
aveo lea
1.1, Accord intérimaire
ONDERHANDELINGEN TUSSEN PB EEG EN BE ACP-LANDEN OVERGANGSMAATREGELEN VCOR DE PERIODE NA 31 JAUUifll 1975 Ü-)
Transitional measures to be implemented after 31 January 1975
on transitional measures to "be applied after 31 January 1975
opening tariff preferences for the products covered by that Community and originating in the associated African States and Madagascar
on the transitional measures to be applied after 31 January 1975
on the transitional measures to be applied after 31 January 1975 to the associated overseas countries and territories
on maintaining the provisions of Title III , Chapter II ,
and of Title IV of Part IV of the Act concerning the conditions
of accession and the adjustments to the Treaties
on the Getting up of an interim EEC-AGP Committee
(submitted to the Council by the Commission) C0M(74) 2194 final/A
 NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN THE EEC Ai*D THE ACP STATES Transitional measures to be implemented after 51 January 1975
(Conmissiou Communication to the Council)
III. -Advance entry into force of certain provisions
of the SEC-AC? Convention 7 IV . Conclusions 10
Draft EEC-AASM Council of Association decision on transitional measures to be applied after 1
February 1975
Draft Council regulation extending the treatment applicable to certain agricultural products originating in the AASM, OCT and ESTAF
Draft decision of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States of the ECSC, meeting in the Council, relating to tariff preferences for SCSC products originating in
the AASM and the OCT
Draft EEC-ESTAF Association Council decision on transitional measures to be applied after
1 February 1975
Draft Council decision on transitional measures
to be applied after 1 February 1975 to the OCT ( Draft Council decision on maintaining the status quo provisions of the Act concerning the Conditions of Accession and the Adjustments to the Treaties . Draft joint act of the Contracting Parties on the setting up of an interim EEC-ACP Committee
Pending the entry into force of the future EEC-ACP Convention it is necessary for transitional measures to be introduced from 1 February 1975» the day following the date of expiry of the Yaounde Convention, the Arusha Agreement and the status quo arrangements provided for in the Treaty of Accession . t
These measures are to cover the Community's relations with :
i. the ii". the iii. the
East African States (Arusha Agreement , Article 36 ); other countries referred to in Protocol No 22 (Treaty of
the OCT ( Council Decision of 29 September 1970 ( 70/ 5^+9/ EEC )
the dependencies ( Treaty of Accession , Article 119(3 ))» certain associable third countries participating in the EEC-
The Commission considers that the best solution will be to apply certain provisions of the future ESC-ACP Convention in advance, especially in the trade sector. ■ However, to this end even if the new EEC-ACP Convention is signed soon, a certain period will be necessary in order to take the measures required in respect of regu­ lations and technical matters. The possibility of any gap as from 1 February 1975" will therefore have to be avoided. In these circumstances the Commission considers that it is necessary to have two successive transitional phases :
1 . Upon the signature of the Convention the Contracting Parties should
agree on the date from which certain provisions of the new Convention , to be specified in an interim agreement , will be applied in advance .
2. Between 1 February 1975 aud the date referred to above, status quo arrangements should be established for an initial transitional phase to extend certain provisions resulting from the arrangements in force on the basis of the legal instruments referred to above.
The proposals contained in this paper also cover relations withthe OCT and the dependencies .
 Wo decision is called for in connection with the associable third countries participating in the negotiations, as they will continue to be considered as: third countries during the first phase.
1.1 . Arrangemsnts_for_imports into the Z5C and the AASM
The provisions of the whole of Title I of the Yaounde Con­ vention , together with Protocols iN'os 1 to 5 > constituted the basis of the arrangements for trade between the partners . These provisions were supplemented by implementing measures decided on by the Council of Association, in particular as
regards the definition of origin and the information and consultation system.
Despite the differences that clearly exist between these
arrangements and what are to be the future ACP arrangements, the situation at' 31 January 1975 will have to be maintained
until' the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields .
Provision should be made for a decision of the Council of Association extending for the duration of the first transi­ tional phase the application of the whole of Title I of the Yaounde Convention , Protocols Nos 1 to 5 , Annexes II , X and XI, and the decisions taken by the Association Council
necessary for the application of those provisions.
 1.2. Financial and technical cooperation :
The relevant provisions contained in Title II of the Con­ vention, in Protocols Nos 6 and 7 and in Annexes III,. IV and XII could remain applicable beyond 31 January 1975*
No sptecial decision is required for committing the balance of the third EDF in favour of the AASM; such commitment is provided for in the internal financial agreement governing that Fund.
As regards the EIB, the Community could - as it did during the period between the two Yaounde Conventions - ask that body to carry on committing its own resources in' favour of the AASM, provided that the ceiling of 90 million u.a. has not been reached
by 31 January 1975» which is probable. 1.3. Other provisions
The provisions relating to the following would also be maintained in force beyond 31 January 1975 :
i. establishment, services, payments and capital; 11 . institutions :
xii . - certain general and final provisions ;
iv. the decisions adopted by the Council of Association
for the purposes of implementing the provisions listed above .
See : draft decision'of the SEC-AASM Council of Association
relating to the provisions proposed in points 1 - 1 - , 1-2. and 1.3* above, which is contained in Annex I.
1.4. Unilateral measures relating to the agricultural products referred to in Article 2(2) of the Convention
It should be noted that the period of application of the regulations adopted by the Community in implementation of Article 2(2) and Protocol No 1 to the Yaounde Convention
is linked to the date of expiry of the latter, namely 31 January 1975 .
The Commission herewith submits to the Council of the European Communities the proposals necessary for fulfilling the commitments to be undertaken in respect of the products referred to in Article 2(2) of the Yaounde Convention for the duration of the first transitional phase .
See : proposal for Council regulation in Annex II attached.
Arrangements for ECSC products
The Agreement relatirfg to ECSC products, which was concluded between the Member States of the ECSC and "the
AASM at the same time as the Yaounde Convention, will also expire on 31 January - 1975 * that Agreement there is no express provision for extension. Such extension could be effected only by the conclusion of a new Agreement, which would have to be ratified' by the Parliaments of the Member States . This solution is obviously out of the question . However, the Member States can take a unilateral decision to continue applying provisions which are equivalent to those of Article 1 of the Agreement (exemption from customs duties
and charges having equivalent effect) for the duration of the transitional measures .
See : draft decision of the Member States in Annex III attached .
The provisions of the whole of Title I of the Arusha Agreement , together with Protocols Nos 1 to 5 « constituted
the basis of the arrangements for trade between the partners* These provisions were supplemented by implementing measures decided on by the Association Council, in particular as regards the definition of origin .
Despite the differences that clearly exist between these arrangements and what are to be the future ACP arrangements, the situation at 31 January 1975 will have to be maintained until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields .
Provision should be made for a decision of the Association Council extending for the duration of the first transitional
phase the application of the whole of Title I of the Arusha Agreement, .Protocols Nos 1 to 5» Annexes I, II, III, V and VI, and the decisions taken by the Association Council necessary for the application of those provisions .
In addition, the provisions relating to the following can . be extended from 31 January 1975 J
establishment and services»
payments and capital;
certain general and final provisions ;
the decisions adopted by the Association Council for the purposes of implementing the provisions listed above .
See : draft decision of the TSEC-3STAF Association Council in Annex IV attached relating to the proposals made in points 2.1 . and 2.2 . above .
Unilateral measures relating to the agricultural products 1 referred to in Article 2(1) of the Agreement : it should be '
noted that the period of application of the regulations ^ adopted by the Community in implementation of Article 2(2)
of the Agreement is linked to the date of expiry of the latte;,
The Commission herewith submits to the Council of the
European Communities the proposals necessary for fulfilling the commitments to be undertaken in respect of these products for the duration of the first transitional phase .
See : proposal for Council regulation in Annex II attached.
By a decision of the Council of the European Communities,
Titles I to III , Article 38 and the annexes to the Council | Decision 01 29 September 1970 may be extended until the date ; of entry into force of the provisions to be adopted by the Council to lead on from those of the said Decision; this
date will coincide with that on which certain provisions of j the EEC-ACP Convention are put into force in advance .
See : draft decision of the Council of the European Commun­ ities in Annex' V attached .
As regards the agricultural products referred to in Article 2(2) of the above Council Decision of 29 September 1970, the ' transitional measures are proposed in the context of the proposal for a Council regulation set out in Annex II attached'
k. Countries and territories referred to in Article 2^ of the Act of Accession
5» States referred to in Article 109 of the Act of Accession i
In accordance with Articles 115(3) and 119(3), the Council of j the European Communities can take a decision to extend the
status quo arrangements provided for in those Articles until the date of the advance entry into force of certain provisions of the EEC-ACP Convention 1 ..
See : draft decision of the Council of the European Communities I
1 As regards the relations between the United Kingdom and the states, countries and territories referred to in paragraphs *+ and 5, it is for the United Kingdom to take any measures which prove necessary .
III. ADVANCE Ei^TRY INTO FORCE OF CERTAIn PROVISIONS OF THS EEC/ACP CONVENTION (second transitional phase)
If the Contracting Parties agree to adopting the solution of an interim Agreement to implement in advance certain provisions "of the EEC-ACP Convention (see Introduction, paragraph 1 ) at a date to be agreed and after an initial status quo phase , the Commission will put forward the appro­ priate proposals, covering in particular the field of trade, in sufficient time to the Council.
1.2» Other measures
The Commission considers that further transitional measures based on the future Convention should be adopted as soon as the future Convention has been signed ; those measures would relate to the following areas :
Transitional provisions will have to be adopted to enable preparations to be made, in agreement with the ACP States, for the implementation of the fourth EDF in favour of all the ACP States, in accordance with the rules, powers and procedures laid down in the texts of the Convention®
1 These provisions relate to the following :
The relevant Community departments will be able , as soon as the new Convention and the implementing texts internal to
the Community have been signed, to programme Community aid in conjunction with the relevant authorities of each . ACP State .
The aid programmes in question could also be the subject, during the transitional phase , of discussions between the representatives of each ACP State and the representatives of the Community.
^Similar provisions were adopted in 1969, for- preparations .
for the implementation of the third EDF, and brought to the notice of the AASM in a Community Declaration published in
the minutes of the Negotiations.
Submission of projects
The Community would agree to requests for the financing of projects and pro '-rammes from the fourth EDF or from the EIB 's own resources being submitted as from the signature of the new Convention and its implementing texts •
The relevant departments of the Community institutions could, during the transitional phase, appraise the projects and
programmes submitted in conjunction with the relevant ACP bodies •
These departments will take all necessary steps to prepare also , in so far as possible , the financing agreements and invitation to tender dossiers relating to those projects.
Préparation of financin <? décisions
The Community bodies responsible for taking financing decisions could , during the transitional period , examine any projects
or programmes in respect of which appraisal has been completed in the meantime . However , such projects or programmes
cannot be definitively approved and financing decisions taken on them until after the entry into force of the new Convention.
B. Setting up of an Interim Committee
The Commission considers that further transitional measures
designed inter alia to prepare for the implementation of the future Convention should moreover be adopted upon the signa­ ture thereof . To this end , the Community and the ACP States will be able to decide , through a joint act such as an exchange of letters , to set up an Interim Committee .
During the first transitional phase the Committee would deal with :
the draft rules of procedure of the Association Council and Committee ;
the procedures for presenting the Convention to the GATT; preparations for implementing the rules of origin , the system of stabilizing export earnings and industrial
and trade cooperation .
During the second transitional period it will also be required to apply the provisions of the Convention which enter into force in advance and , in particular ! will hold the exchanges of views and consultations specified in those provisions .
See : draft joint act of the Community and the ACP States in Annex VII attached .
OCT ( including the countries and territories referred to in the Act of Accession , Article 2*0
2»1 • A decision of the Council of the European Communities will have to adopt provisions similar to those which are to be laid down in respect of the ACP States and which are referred to in paragraph 1.1 . above .
A Commission proposal in this connection will be presen ted to the-Council at the appropriate time after the EEC ACP Convention has been signed.
Once the EEC-ACP Convention has been signed , transition al provisions for financial and technical cooperation similar to those adopted in respect of the ACP States
( see paragraph 1.2 . A. above ) can be adopted in respect of the OCT, enabling preparations to be made for implsmenting the fourth EDF .
To sum up, the Commission proposes to establish transitional arrangements covering relations with all the ACP States and OCT and dependencies until the entry into force of the EEC- ACP Convention on the basis of the following provisions and decision procedures :
I. First transitional phase (from 1 February 1975 until the date of entry into force of the interim EEC-ACP Agreement) :
Decision of the ESC-AASM Council of Association, extending the term of validity of certain provisions of the Yaounde Convention (Annex I);
Regulation of the Council of the European Communities on agricultural products (Annex II);
Decision of the Member States of the ECSC extending the term of validity of certain provisions of theAgree-
ment with the AASM on ECSC products (Annex III ).
Decision of the EEC-ESTAF Association Council ext­ ending the term of validity of certain provisions
of the Arusha Agreement (Annex IV);
Agricultural producfcs '• Council Régulation on agri­ cultural products (Annex II)
Decision of the Council of the European Communities extending the term of validity of the provisions of the Decision of 29 September 1970 (Annex V); Agricultural products : Council Régulation on agri­ cultural products (Annex II).
ECSC products : Decision of the Member States (Annex III )
Countries and territories referred to in Article 2^- of the Act of Accession
Commonwealth countries referred to in Article 109 of the Act of Accession
Decision of the Council of the European Communities extending the term of validity of the status quo arrangements laid down ift the said Act. (Annex VI)
Second i .
transitional phase ( until the entry into force of the EÊC-ACP Convention )
Advance 6ntry into force , on a date to be agreed , of certain provisions of the EEC-ACP Convention by means 'of
Setting up of an interim ESC- ACP Committee , to be
provided for by a joint ESC-ACP ct as soon as the Convention is signed : provided for in Annex VII.
aii interim time as the
E5C-AASM Agreement , to . be signed at the same ESC-ACP Convention itself ..
of this Agreement is to be agreed with the
The content ACP States.
6. Other associable third countries taking part in the EEC-ACP negotiations : there is no provision for any decision, these countries being treated as third countries during the first transitional phase .
In other words, the following acts are to be provided for :
I. Upon the date of signing the EEC-ACP Convention :
i . interim E3C-ACP Agreement ( to be draam up );
ii. joint EEC-ACP Act setting up an interim Committee (Annex VII).
II. Before 31 January 1975 ' status quo measures :
Decision of the EEC-AASM Council of Association (Annex I); Decision of the EEC-ESTAF Association Council (Annex IV); Council Decisions on :
agricultur'al régulations (Annex II);
the Agreement between the Member States and the AASM
on ECSC products (Annex III );
extension of the term of validity of the status quo arrangements laid dowxi in the Act of Accession (Annex VI).
III. Before the entry into force of the interim EEC-ACP Agreement :
Council Decision applying to all the OCT (associated and dependencies) provisions similar to those in the trade part of the said interim Agreement, to be drawn up at the appropriate time .
Having regard to the Convention of Association signed at Yaounde on 29 July 1969 / and in particular 'Article 62(2 ) thereof ;
Desirous of ensuring the continuity of the Association until the entry into force of the EEC-ACP Convention,
The following shall remain applicable beyond 31 January 1975 •
(1) the provisions relating to trade contained in Title I of the Convention, in Protocols Nos 1 to 5 thereto and in Annexes
(2)' the provisions relating to financial and technical cooperation contained in Title II of the Convention, in Protocols Nos 6 and 7 thereto and in Annexes III , IV and. XII ;
( 3 ) the provisions relating to establishment , services , payments and capital movements contained in Title III of the Convention and in Annexes V and VI ;
(k) the provisions relating to institutions contained in Title IV of the Convention, in Protocols Nos 8 and 10 thereto and in Annexes VIII and IX;
(5) the general and final provisions contained in Articles 56, 57, 60,62(2), 6*+, 65 and 66 of Title V, in Protocol No 9 aad in Annexes VII, XIII and XIV;
(6) the decisions adopted by the Council of Association for the purpose of implementing the provisions referred to above .
This Decision shall apply until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields or until 30 June 1975, whichever is the earlier.
The Associated States, the Member States and the Community shall,
each respectively for its part , take the measures required for »
implementation of this Decision.
This Decision shall enter into force on 1 February 1975*
President of the Council of Association
Whereas the Member States have concluded with each other the Treaty- establishing the European Coal and Steel Community;
Whereas the Agreement relating to ECSC' products concluded between the Member States of the ECSC and the AASM and the Agreement between the Member States of the ECSC relating to trade with "the OCT in ECSC products expire on 31 January 1975?
Having regard to Decision No . . ./75 of the EEC-AASM Council of Association and Council Decision No . . ./75 on transitional measures
to be implemented from 1 February 1975 in the relations with the AASM and the OCT respectively ;
Desiring to continue to apply , autonomously and concurrently , the tariff suspensions' agreed in the present Convention having regard to the current negotiations for the renewal of that Convention;
In agreement with the Commission ; HAVE DECIDED : v
From 1 February 1975» the duties applicable in the Community as originally constituted to imports of products covered by the European Coal and Steel Community and originating in the AASM or the OCT, or the levying of such duties , shall be suspended .
The provisions laying down the rules of origin for the application
of the Convention of Association between the European Economic
Community as originally constituted and the AASM and for the imple­ mentation of Council Decision No 70/5^9 of 29 September 1970 on the Association of the OCT shall be applicable to the products referred to iti thin Decision .
The Member States shall decide by mutual agreement on any safeguard measures sup;p;ested by one or more Member States or by the Commission.
This Deciaion shall expire at the same timo as the transitional
measures provided for in Decision No . . ./ 75 of the EEC-AASM Council
of Association and in Council Decision No . . ./75 as regards the Association of the OCT.
The Member States shall take all the measures necessary for the implementation of this Decision .
Done at Brussels ,
The President
 II, III, V and
the provisions in Title II of
relating to establishment and services contained the Agreement ;
Having regard to the Association Agreement signed at Arusha on 2k September 1969 ? and in particular Article 36(2 ) thereof ;
Desiring to ensure the continuity of the Association until the entry into force of the EEC-ACP Convention;
The (1)
following shall remain applicable beyond 31 January 1975 s'
the provisions relating to trade contained in Title I of the Agreement, in Protocols Nos 1 to 5 thereto and in Annexes I,
the provisions relating to payments and capital movements contained in Title III and in Annex VI to the Agreement;
(4) the provisions relating to institutions contained in Title IV
and in Annex IV to the Agreement ;
( 5 ) the general and final provisions in Articles 30 , 31 1 32 » 35(2 ), . 36, 37 and 38 and in Annexes VIII and IX;
( 6 ) the .decisions adopted by the Association Council for the purposes of implementing the provisions referred to above .
This Decision shall apply until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields or until J>0 June 1975» whichever is the earlier .
The Associated States , the Member States and the Community shall , each respectively for its part, take the measures required for the implementation of this Decision .
This Decision shall enter into force on 1 February 1975«
Done at Brussels , . •
President of the Association Council
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community , and in particular Article 13>6 thereof ;
Whereas the Council Decision of 29 September 1970 on the Association of the OCT with the EEC expires on 31 January 1975;
Whereas the provisions which are to replace this Decision cannot enter into force until after that date ;
Whereas pending the entry into force of these provisions, this Decision should be maintained in force provisionally;
The provisions of the Council Decision of 29 September 1970 on the Association of the OCT with the EEC and of its Annexes, and the
arrangements for their implementation, shall remain applicable beyond
31 January 1975 until the entry into force of the provisions which
are to replace' this Decision or until 30 June..._1975| whichever is the earlier .
Done at Brussels ,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community ;
Having regard to the Act concerning the Conditions of Accession and the Adjustments to the Treaties, and in particular Articles 115(3) and 119(3) thereof;
Having regard to the Opinion of the Commission,
Whereas the Council of Association, set up by the Convention of Association between the EEC and the AASM, signed in Yaounde on
29 July 1969, and the Association Council set up the Association Agreement between the EEC and- the East African countries, signed
in Arusha on 2^+ September 1969» have implemented the transitional provisions laid down in Article 62 of that Convention of Association and in Article of that Association Agreement,
The arrangements provided for in Articles 109 to 114 and Article 119
of the Act of Accession shall be maintained until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields or uiitil
30 June 1975* whichever is the earlier.
A joint act of the Contracting Parties (or an exchange of letters) will
deal with the setting up of an interim EEC-ACP Committee and could contain the following provisions :
1. The interim Committee shall be responsible for preparing the entry into force of the EEC-ACP Convention, and in particular :
the draft rules of procedure of the Association Council and Committee the procedures for presenting the Convention " to the GATT ;
the rules of origin ;
the export earnings stabilization system ; ,
2. It shall also be responsible for applying certain provisions of the Convention where they enter into force in advance of the Convention under the interim EEC-ACP Agreement, including the exchanges of views and consultations relating thereto .
3 « It shall adopt its working procedures .
k. It shall begin t6 operate with effect from the date on which the EEC- ACP Convention is signed.
Formand for Associeringsrådet
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
extending the treatment applicable to certain agricultural products originating in the Associated African States, Madagascar and Mauritius,
in the Overseas Countries and Territories and in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
 Proposai for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( ESC )
extending the treatment applicable to certain agricultural products originating in the Associated African States , Madagascar and Mauritius , in
the Overseas Countries and Territories and in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 43 thereof ;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament 1 ;
Whereas the Convention of Association2 signed on 29 July 1969 between the Europeon Economic Community .-uid the African States and Madagascar associated with that Community provides that for such agricultural products as come under a common organization of the market and where the Associated States have an economic interest in exporting such products, the Community shall lay down import arrangements for the
products originating in those States which shall be more favourable than the general treatment applied to identical products originating in third countries ,
Whereas, pursuant to the Association Agreement on the accession of Mauritius to the Yaounde Convention, signed on 12 May 1972, the pro­ visions of the Yaounde Convention are applicable to Mauritius;
Whereas the Council Decision^ of 29 September 1970 on the Association of the Overseas Countries and Territories with the European Economic Commun ity lays down identical provisions in respect of agricultural products originating in those countries and territories ;
Whereas the Agreement4 establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and the United Republic of , Tanzania , the Republic of Uganda aud the Republic of Kenya lays down like provisions in
respect of agricultural products originating in those States ;
Whereas
Council Regulations (EEC) No 517/70*5 of 17 March 1970 and No 652/716 of JO March 1971 on the treatment applicable to beef and veal
originating in the African States and Madagascar (AASM) or the
Overseas Countries and ^Territories (OCT), and in the United
. Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic
Council Regulations (EEC) No 522/70^ of 17 March 1970 and No
653/71 of 30 March 1971 on the treatment applicable to processed
cereal and rice products originating in the AASM or the OCT and
in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the
Republic of Kenya, as last amended by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1036/725 of 18 May 1972,
Council Regulations (EEC) No 519/70 of 17 March 1970 and No 65^/
715 of 30 March 197T oil the treatment applicable to processed fruit and vegetable products originating in the AASM or the OCT
and in the United Republic of Tanzania , the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya,
Council Regulation (EEC) No 2^4/71^ of 1 February 1971 and No 655/
71 of 30 March 1971 on the treatment applicable to unmanufactured
tobacco originating in the AASM or the OCT and in the United Repub­ lic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya,
Council Regulations (EEC) No 2738/73 of 8 October 1973, amending
Council Regulation (EEC) No 859/72^ of 25 April 1972, and No 2739/
Council Regulation (iIEC) No 656/71 of 30 March 1971, as amended
applicable to maize originating in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya,
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1316/7114 of 21 June 1971 on the treat­ ment applicable to fish products originating in the AASM or the OCT,
of 8 October 1973, amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 860/
and vegetables originating in the AASM or the OCT and in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya ,
..... . .• . of 25 April 1972, on the treatment applicable to certain fruit
of 10 July 1972 , on the treatment
5feb. 1971, p. 1 OJNoL156, 12July 1972
Council Regulation (ESC) No 5l8/70 of 17 March 1970 on the treatment applicable to oleaginous products originating in the AASM or the OCT,
Council Regulation (EEC) No 5^0/702 of 20 March 1970 on the treatment applicable to rice and broken rice originating in the AASM or the OCT,
Council Regulation (ESC) No 520/70^ of 17 March 1970 laying down special provisions for the import of goods covered by Regulation (EEC) No 1059/69 originating in the AASM or the OCT,
Council Regulations (EEC) No 521/70^ of 17 March 1970 and No 2^5/71^ of 1 February 1971 providing for special derogations in respect of
imports into the French Overseas Departments of certain agricultural
products originating- in the AASM 'or the OCT , have been adopted pursuant to these undertakings ;
Whereas, following the Decisions of the Council of Association of the Yaounde Convention and the Association Council of the Arusha Agreement on the transitional measures to be applied after 31 January 1975, the undertakings given bv the Community in respect of the Associated African States and Madagascar and the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya have been extended until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the same fields or until 30 June 1975 , whichever is the earlier ;
Whereas, by Council Decision of .... on the transitional measures concerning the Overseas Countries and Territories to be applied after 31 January 1975» the undertakings in respect of those ' countries and territories have been extended until the entry into force of the new provisions relating to the
same fields or until 30 June 197^whichever is the earlier;
Whereas the reasons for according such 'treatment are still valid ; whereas such treatment should be maintained throughout the period during which the Community 's undertakings in respect of those Associated States , Countries a: d Territories are valid ;
Whereas consultations have been held with the Associated States; HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION : . ■
The second and third paragraphs
of Article 2 of Regulation (SEC) No 517/70
aud the second para/rraph
of Article 3 of Regulation (EEC) No 2^/71
are replaced by the following paragraph "It shall be applicable :
in respect of products originating in the Associated African States and Madagascar and in the United Republic of Tanzania, the Republic of Uganda and the Republic of Kenya , until the entry into force of the
new provisions relating to the same fields or until 30 June 1975» whi-never is the earlier;
in .-espect of products originating in the Overseas Countries and Ter-itories associated with the Community, until the entry ii.to force of the provisions which are to replace the Council Decision of 29 September 1970 or until 30 June 1975» whichever is the earlier."
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following publication thereof in the Official Journal of the European Communities-.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all the Member States of the Community as originally constituted.
For the Council
The President
_ It – tt
