(Communication from the Commission)
 1. TheeconomicandsocialsituationintheCommunityandtheoutlook
1,1 Inmid-NovembertheCommunitywasstillinthethroesoftheworst recession since the war: *. •
industrialproductionintheCommunityasawhole.hadfallen"backto the level of early 1972 and declined Ijy 11.5$ since last year;
5million,i.e.morethan4*5i°ofthelabourforce; .inmanyMember %
States a third of the unemployed were school-, and university-leavers andotheryoungpeople; .
thenumberofworkersregisteredonshort-timeworkingintheCommunity has now passed the 1 million mark; several hundred thousand foreign workers have had to return to their homes outside the Community;
thevolumeofexportsofalmostalltheMemberStateshasdippedsharply • as a result of the contraction in the volume of world trade;
becauseprofitsarelowandtheoutlookuncertain,realinvestmentby firms in the private sector has marked time or actually declined;
consumerpricesintheCommunityasawholehaverisenonaverageby 13$overthepreviousyear; therangeofinflationrates
between the Federal Republic of Germany (about 6%) and .the United
Kingdom(about26fo) isevenwiderthanin1974;
ontheaveragefortheyear,thegrossdomesticproductofthe Community will have fallen by from 2.5 "to 3% in 1971} with output losses varying a good deal in degree from country to country.
 T.2 ^At its meeting on 17 November 1975» "the Council approved the Annual Report on the Economic Situation in the Community and the economic policy guidelines for 1976 set out in the report. The Council therefore broadly £gr£es with the Commission's assessment of the present situation and economic
1,3 The latest statistics now available confirm the points made in the
(a) 'iff'fliost Member States the decline in output and demand seems either
Hid'be'losing momentum or to have "bottomed out" completely:
(b) .the European Community business surveys point to a definite improvement ht:•* M.»;/ v •
in the business climate; 1
early evidence that the economy has passed the turning point is already .discernible in Germany and France.
1,4 .The following factors suggest that a moderate upturn may be expected to
get tmder way – though not at the same times in each country - between
domestic product of from 3 to 3*5$
(a; the recovery of world tradej
(b) the results of recently launched programmes to spur on"business
activity ; .
(c) stocks are now so depleted that manufacturers and dealers have no choice but to place fresh orders to maintain minimum levels or build up again .
towards previous levels; households are also tending, to some extent, to revert to more normal patterns of consumption.
It will be some time, however, before firms are wcrkihg at full capacity and only thereafter will it be possible to scale down unemployment, a movement which is unlikely to be rapid; in some countries, indeed, annual average unemployment levels in 1976 are likely to be higher than in 1975*
 1.5 Although it is now probable that the recovery can "be achieved, there are etill no reliable indications as to its scale or duration, which will "be determined by the strength of the recovery in export demand and the extent to
which, and the speed at which, the confidence of consumers and investors in theeconomicfuturecanberestored. Therestorationofconfidenceisclosely dependent on the progress which can be made in the fight against unemployment and inflation. The scope for short-term policy measures to be taken during the coming months is narrow and the danger of a new bout of inflation has by no means been eliminated.
1.6 Economic developments in the coming months must therefore be monitored
more closely than eve^ as economic policy might, in certain circumstances, have to be switched at short notice to a new course. In the meantime:
(a) thebudgetarypoliciesofmostMemberStatesshouldremaingearedto the support of business activity;
(b) theexpansionisttrendofmonetary(includingcredit)policyshouldbe maintained.
Member States in certain cases should also be ready to implement.without delay the additional measures which may prove necessary.
1«7 Regular consultations and close coordination between Member States,and . ° although t
between the Community and the rest of the world are indispensable, especially_a.s/_ it is probable, it is by no means certain that the recovery can in fact be
achieved and as this recoveiy, if it does get under way, is unlikely to be on a large scale. Ti? Community's tasks of ensuring unhindered movement of goods across frontiers and of promoting world trade are of particular importance at the present time. • ..
The most urgent task facing the governments and the various federations, unions and associations involved in economic life
is to ensure that conditions for an improvement in the employment situation and for lasting growth are created throughout the Community. In this respect mujfcual trust and constructive cooperation betv;ccn the two sides of industry
•and t.he governments are 'of the utmost importance.
 2* TheTripartiteConferenceof18TTovcmber
2.1 ThemainachievementoftheTripartiteConferencewasthatitshowed that all those involved are determined to try to solve the difficulties facing
VLB"byclosecooperationratherthanbyconfrontation. Thedialoguebetween the two sides of industry, the Governments of the Member States and the Commission must be continued. It was decided that another Conference should
be held by June 1976. . ',.
At the next Conference the Commission vail present- a thorough analysis of the Community'seconomicandsocialsituation. Itwillalsostudyindetailthe major issues discussed at the Conference. This work will be carried out in cooperation with the two sides of industry.
All those who took part in the Conference expressed great concern at the level ofunemploymentintheCommunity. Jointeffortsmustthereforebe concentrated primarily on solving this problem. The Standing Committee on
Employment is to intensify its efforts in this field.
2.2 Abroadmeasureofagreementwasreachedonthefollowingpoints: (a) presenteconomicdifficulties
are due more to structural shortcomings than to the current general business and trade situation;
 (e) need for sustained medium-term growth with more consideration for qualitative requirements; ■*
(d) increased stability and confidence in international economio and . monetary relations are necessary;
(e) better use should be made of human and material resources which are at present unproductive;
(f) promotion of retraining and further training to improve the structure
of the labour market; ■ •«
(g) selective investment incentives - with differing emphasis on the - respective roles of private and public investment;
(h)continuationanddevelopmentofthefreemovementofgoods; (although eoae participants were not prepared to rule out the possibility of temporary selective import controls)*
2*3' The main differences of opinion were on the following points:
(a) the need for further expansionist short-term policy measures, ' *' particularly with regard to private consumption;
(b) wages policy in the present economic situation;
(o) danger of further inflationary pressures during the economic upturn; (d)closercontrolswithregardtopriceformation; . (e)greaterscopeforguiding orchannellingprivateinvestment;
 (f) importance of multinational firms and ways and means of "bringing then
rj\ is'noteworthy that all the participants felt that these contested issues, asWellasthoseonwhichtherewasgeneralagreement, should"bethesubject
fufther^ analysis and discussion. • :
