P.J. : fiche financière
Extension and modification of decision No 73/287/ECSC concerning coking coal and coke for the iron and steel
industry in the Community,
- This question is on the Agenda for the 403rd meeting of the Commission, on Wednesday 3 November 1976#
To : Members of the Commission Mr. WILLIAMS
 Note to the Members of the Commission (communication from Mr. SIMONST)
Extension and modification of decision No 73/287/ECSC concerning coking coal and coke for the iron and steel industry in the Com­ munity (l)
policy guidelines drawn up "by the European Council at its meeting in Rome on 1 and 2 December 1975" (2), the Commission proposed to extend, with certain modifications, the expiry date of the current decision concerning coking coal from end 1978 to end 1985.
In its communication to the Council "Implementation of the energy
2. Since this measure is introduced under article 95, paragraph 1, ECSC it requires the unanimous assent of the Council and consultation with the Consultative Committee .
3. The attached dossier is intended for the consultation procedure and comprises :
- a note setting out the economic considerations relevant to the extension of
the Community coking coal system and summarizing the modifications to the présent dispositions :
- a draft disposition modifying decision No 73/287/ECSC concerning coking coal and coke for the iron and steel industry in the Community in the provisional form of a comparative text showing the present text along side the modifications proposed by the Commission ;
- a brief commentary on the proposed modifications ; - a table "financing the Community fund".
This presentation should facilitate discussion by the ECSC group. Subsequently, a draft disposition will be presented in final form to the Commission and for the assent of the Council .
4. One of essential elements of the system is the Community financing of sales aid in relation to intra-Community trade. The Commission must give particular attention to the following three points :
4.1 . ECSC forward budgeting for the period 1977-1985 represents
7 mua x 9 = 63 mua (instead of 6 x 2 = 12 rnua for 1977 and 1978 if the deci­ sion doers not go beyond its present term).
The Commission must take account of this in its budgetary conside­ rations (see attached financial deta,ils). ./.
(1) O.J. No 259/36 of 15.9.73 (2) C0K(76)20 of 16.1.76
 4.2. The breakdown of the contribution of the Member States has always
been a delicate subject. The draft proposes a total of 76 irrua for the new period (instead of 4«1 + 3.1 = 7«2 mua for the two years remaining at present).
Actually only the six members of the original Community participate in financing the common fund. Denmark and Ireland are exempt since their steel industries do not have blast-furnac® and therefore do not use coke . In 1973
the Commission proposed that the United Kingdom should contribute, during the discussions which followed, the German delegation agreed to cover the corresponding charge in addition to its own obligations.
The attached draft does not depart from the existing breakdown between Member States. The Commission could consider the possibility of leaving this point open as was done for the existing decision at the beginning of the consultation procedure (see C0M(72)l202/2 of 4.10.72).
4.3. The overall amount charged to the steel industry for 1977-1985 is I67 mua compared with 24.3 for the two remaining years of the existing deci­ sion. Under the present system the contribution of the British steel industry is paid to the United Kingdom government and not to the common fund. The
draft proposes that this mechanism be changed thereby avoiding any increase
in the overall change to the steel industry in comparison with the 1976 level.
It is proposed to the Commission that - the attached texts be adopted ;
- that their transmission to the Council and to the Consultative Committee be authorized thereby engaging the article 95 procedure ;
1CSC contribution to the Community fund (in mua)
 Economic considerations relevant to the extension and amendment of Decision No 73/287/ECSC of 25 July 1973 concerning coal and coke for the iron and steel indus­
try in the Community (l)
Appropriate measures must be adopted if the objectives of Community energy policy are to be achieved.
Security of supply on economically satisfactory terms , of blast-fur­ nace coke , a raw material indispensable to iron and steel making requires the Community's coal production capability to be maintained in the long term - i.e., both the capacity and the labour needed to run it properly. Mining ca­ pacity is usually linked with equally large coking capacity.
Financial aids to the coal industry are still essential if it is to be in a position to sell coking coal , especially in areas far away from the coalfields , without any risk of triggering a rise in world coking-coal prices . ,
It is therefore in the "common interest" of the Member States and of
the coal and steel industries to take part in an operation designed to achieve several of the objectives laid down in Articles 2 and'3 of the ECSC Treaty.
By this is meant the extension to 1985 of the arrangements for coking coal provided up to 1978* The period originally planned has proved too short in view of the structural changes in the energy sector since 1974«
The extension would be accompanied by financial adjustments better suited to the new dtiration and which could have been examined under Article 10 of the existing Decision.
1. Like its forerunners, Decision 73/287 is meant to help the coal in­ dustry to produce the necessary amount of coking coal and sell it as blast- furnace coke, whereas - in the absence of any such measure - a substantial reduction of capacity could still prove necessary.
2. The expiry date is 31 December 1978* In 1977 and 1978 the amount of Community finance in aid of intra-Community trade will each year be reduced by 15 io relative to the previous year in line with the objective that the steel industry should cover its total coke supply costs when the system comes to an end .
3. At the time this decision was taken, a period of six years was deemed sufficient for the coal and steel industries to put their relations on a footing consistent with the principles laid down by the Treaty.
Intervening events, and decisions or guidelines adopted in the mean­ time , have changed the outlook in several respects .
In the energy sector, the "Medium-term guidelines for coal 1975-1985" (l) and the Council Resolution of 17 December 1974 (2) envisage the mainte­
nance of a high level of Community coal production over this period as a contribution to Community energy supplies. This level can be achieved only if there is stable , steady disposal of production .
As regards coking coal , this involves firm , long-term commitments on the part of the iron and steel industry.
As regards this industry, recent experience underlines the desirabi­ lity of its taking a long view of the possibilities and conditions of its supplies of Community coking coal.
4. The Community has already taken or planned a number of measures to
aid implementation of the guidelines for the coal industry. On 25 February
1976 the Commission adopted a new decision on Community arrangements regar­ ding aids granted by the Ilember States to the coalmining industry (528/76/ECoC)3 This Decision will be in force until 31 December 1985* The Commission consi­ ders that there is no certainty that in view of its financial situation, the coal industry can implement the guidelines on its own.
... . . .... (1) C0M(74)1860 final of 21 November 1974
(2) O.J. Ho C 153 of 9 July 1975, p. 2 (3) O.J. No L 63 of 11 Harch 1976» P« 1
In its communication to the Council "Implementation of the energy- policy guidelines drawn up by the European Council at its meeting in Rome on 1 and 2 December 1975" (l)» "the Commission propose that, with some adjustments, the deoision on coking coal should be extended to 1985. Other
measures are planned for the protection or development of Community coal, none of which should duplicate the system applying to coking coal. In parti­ cular, Decision 528/76 does not take into account the fact that there are sizeable intra-Community trade flows in coking coal and that the existence of Community coking-coal production is of concern to all the Member States.
In line with the "guidelines for coal", it appears essential that producers and consumers of Community coking coal and coke should be given the opportunity of keeping or placing their contractual relations on a more permanent basis than was envisaged in 1973 » by extending the validity of the present system.
5. The following considerations show the desirability of such a system :
5.1. Up to 1985> "the overall volume and breakdown of Community supplies of coking coal and coke should not differ essentially from the pattern of recent years .
The increase in the production of pig iron will be compensated by a reduction in the specific consumption of coke. The introduction of formed coke and other processes will effectively widen the range of coals suitable for coking ; this will only be a gradual development. The world market for classic coking coals , though important , will remain limited in terms of vo­ lume and elasticity.
Community production - even though it may be affected by economic and geological considerations in certain coalfields - will continue to offer im­ portant coverage of requirements in conditions of security, regularity and quality which are still important considerations.
Intra-Community trade will continue to play an essential role in terms of quantity and quality while contributing to improved valorization of the other resources of the countries of destination. It will remain an important
factor of cross-penetration on the energy market. (l ) C0r4(76)20 of 16 January 1976
 5.2. The Community coal industry, which generally produces coking coals and fuel coals concurrently has the change of accurately programming the tonnages of coking coal and coke contracted for over the long term by the iron and steel industry, which enables it to optimize its capital and opera­ ting costs for the entire o\itput of coal and of mine-owned coking plants, limiting the protection and development costs which the Community as a whole and each of the producer countries would have to envisage. Despite the con­ siderable price rises on the world market, Community coking coal is still
not always competitive.
5.3. The iron and steel industry can obtain coking coal on a long-term basis at Community prices as close as possible to world prices for comparable transactions. It can take a longer view of the need for or desirability of going to the world market for a proportion of its requirements. It has, within the Community , stocks or , should the occasion arise , storage capaci­ ties enabling it to counter the effects of peaks and troughs in the business cycle - as occurred in 1974 and 1975« It thus limit uncertainties sur­ rounding its supplies of an essential raw material.
All these considerations fit in with the basic objectives laid down in Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty.
5.4. The specific arrangements for coking-coal are intended to ensure equa­ lity of treatment , as regards aids , of Community coalmining companies where the cost of producing coking coal exceeds a common reference level. They also permit the application of prices based on the reference level by broadening, in respect of alignment, the possibilities open to coal undertakings under
the final sub-paragraph of Article 60 (2)(b) of the Treaty. This neutralizes the possible anti-integrational effects of remaining restrictions in commer­ cial policy.
6. As stated above, there is no intention of changing the general lines of the arrangements, merely of extending their application and adapting cer­ tain financial points in line with the spirit of Article 10 of Decision 73/287.
 6.1. The following provisions would remain unchanged in substance :
- production aid fixed annually for each coalfield, limited to the difference
between costs and the corresponding price at world level ;
- sales aid, intended to facilitate intra-Community trade and sales in areas
remote from the coalfield ; given the difference existing in these cases between the world level and the Community delivered prices, the aid should represent a permanent incentive to rationalize production and improve the cost situation ;
- production aid paid by the producing Member State and sales aid for deli­ veries in the same country ;
- a special fund for financing sales aids applying to intra-Community trade ; through its contribution related to its use of blast-furnace coke, the . steel industry would express its interest in maintaining Community coking coal production.
In keeping with its long-term objectives the decision will maintain the dispositions relating to long-term contracts for supplies from within
the Community and to guide prices which trace the long-term evolution of conditions relevant to supplies from outside the Community. In order to con­ firm the practice which has been followed since 1970» "ths disposition relating to the determination of rates of production aid will refer expressly to the guide prices. Long-term contracts constitute the base for assessment of both production and sales aid ; with their reasonable degree of
flexibility, they enable both sides to plan for the long term and they help
to reduce the stocks problem. Also the amendment clause (Article 10) would
be maintained ; the introduction of the SUA from 1 January 1976 appears likely to alleviate the consequence of any monetary measures (l).
6.2. The amendments would relate to the following points : -extensionoftheperiodofapplicationuptotheendofljo?1,thetime
limit for the "guidelines for coal" and Decision 528/76 ;
- maintenance of the sales aid rates applying in 1976 (3 and 1.6 . u.a . , depen­
ding on the consumer's location) until 1983 ; postponement until 1934 and 1985 of the reduced rates planned for 1977 a*1** 1978 under the present arran­ gement s ;
- raising the intervention ceiling of the special fund for intrr.-Community sales aids : this ceiling would rise from 15 to the more realistic level of 18 million tonnes a year (it was set at 17 million tonnes between 1970 and 1973 and the trade shows no tendency to decline). This tonnage would
also be considered as an annual average for the period 1977**1985 j any j
(l) All the rates expressed in u.a. in the Decision as now worded would have to be converted into EUA following publication of the Decision on this
question planned by the Commission.
 contribution not needed m years of low steel production could thus be used in years of strong demand ;
- financing ; if the above measures are adopted, the fund would increase from 30 million u.a. in 1976 "to 36 million u.a. for 1977 ~ 19*83. The difference of 6 mua would have to be split among the three sources of
contributions , say as ECSC
As regard the iron and steel industry, it would be enough for the Fund to be credited with the British Steel contribution currently paid to the UK government.
The degression planned for 1984 and 1985 is modelled on that currently planned for 1977 and 1978, but accentuated slightly for the iron and steel industry . 1
 Draft modifications to decision 73/287/B3SC concerning coal and coke for the iron and steel industry in the Community
Comparative text showing the modifications proposed "by the Commission (right-hand column) and the existing text (left-hand column) (l)
Aids by Member States
The Member States are authorized to grant to coal undertakings under their jurisdiction which supply
coking coal and blast-furnace coke to the Community iron and steel industry aids to facilitate production,
marketing in regions far away from the production areas and intra-Comnlunity trade, and the conclusion
and implementation of long-term contracts for supply and collection. To this end the following aids may be
(a) a production aid, for which the governments shall each year determine a rate per coalfield, while
production in that coalfield*the price of coking + Instead of "the price •••• conditions"
taking particular account of the average costs of
coal in its principal sales area and the long-term supply conditions ;
(b) a sales aid applying to deliveries to areas remote from the coalfield or effected by way of intra-
Community trade. The rate of any such aid may
read "and the price of coking coal in its principal sales area calculated from the guide
Clf prices referred to in article 3*1"*
not exceed 3 u.a. per metric ton of coking coal in
thecaseofdeliveriestoinstallationswhichcanbe iv
supplied direct via maritime transported 1 60 + After "maritime transport " add "or oan only he
u.a per metric ton in all other cases. These rates supplied after maritime transport ",
shall be reduced to 2-60 and 1-40 u.a. respectively
for then-fifth year and 2 and t u.a. respectively for + Instead of "fifth year" read"last year hut one"
th^sixth year of the term of the Decision. These levels are determined on the basis of the rates
applicable for the first year of application, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 10. No scale
adopted by a government shall introduce any element of discrimination into the aids relating to
the deliveries rar.de by the coal undertakings.
+ Instead of
(l) O.Jo !To„ L ZjO/IC of 15,3*107J
j Where a Member State makes use, of its option tinder Article 1, the following rules shall apply :
(a) the aids shall be paid to the coking-coal producer undertakings in respect of their disposals of their
' own coal ;
(b) the aids may be paid only where the coal is used for coking and the coke in question is actually consumed in the blast furnaces of the Community iron and steel industry ;
c) the aids may be paid only where deliveries of coking coal and blast-furnace coke are made under a long-term contract.
2. The production aids referred to in Article 1 (a) of this Decision may be paid only after the rates thereof have been authorized by the Commission . The authori­ zation shall be given by the Commission with due regard to the criteria referred to in Article 1 (a). For this purpose Member States shall, byBO September of
Each year, submit their applications for the following alendar year, together with supporting documents.
The Commission shall give its ruling within two months after receipt of the application.
B. The sales aid referred to in Article 1 (b) may be granted only if it is passed on in the form of price
tebate to the purchaser of coking coal or blast-furnace Coke. When a coal undertaking passes the production aid on to his buyers, this shall not give rise to discrimi­
nation between the various long-term contracts to be performed by that undertaking.
+ Instead of "30 September" read "31 December"
Coal undetakings are authorized, where neces-
"7> to grant rebates on their list prices, for disposals f coking coal and blast-furnace coke for the Commu­
nity iron and steel industry under long-term contract, jven where there is no actual competition from coal coke from non-member countries at the point of
 2. The rebates allowed under (1) above shall not cause the delivered prices of Community coal and coke to work out lower than those which would be
charged for coking coal from non-member countries and coke made from non-member country coking : coal. - i
3. All other provisions concerning the alignment provided for by Article 60 2 (b) last subparagraph of the Treaty, and decisions in implementation thereof, shall apply to the transactions referred to in (1) above, in particular those which allow the Commission, in the event of abuse, to abrogate or restrict the right of the undertakings concerned to grant such rebates.
Should an undertaking infringe the rules laid down in Article 3, the provisions of Article 64 of the Treaty shall apply.
1. The delivered prices of coking coal from non- member countries referred to in Article 3 (2) shall be calculated from the prices cif Community ports for comparable transactions. The Commission may fix guide cif prices;
2. The delivered prices of blast-furnace coke from non-member countries referred to in Article 3 (2) shall be calculated from the cif prices for coking coal referred to in (1) above in such a way as to cover "in , full the net coking costs of the Supplying coking plants. Standard values therefor may be laid down by the Commission.
3. The Commission may lay down criteria for the assessment of differences in grade in coking coal and coke .
Community financing arrangements
Communityvfinancing arrangements shall be set up for :
– sales aids paid in pursuance of Section I of this Decision in respect of intra-Community trade ;
+– the amount of the contributions by the iron and steel industries of member countries not engaged in intra-Community trade, insofar as their produc­ tion of coking coal covers at least 75 % of the requirements of their blast-furnaces.
A special fund administered by the Commission shall be instituted for this purpose.
+ The second indent to be deleted
j. The Community financing arrangements shall cover a quantity of coking coal amounting to no more than 15 million metric tons per annum, and the amount of the contributions referred to in Article. 6
"The Community financing arrangements shall he limited to an average annual tonnage of 18 million metric tons and to the contributions detailed in
paragraph 2* The above average annual tonnage and the annual contributions detailed below may be exceeded in a given year to the extent of any tonnage and contribution not taken up in another year# The rates of contribution per metric ton of coal detailed below may not be exceeded".
2. The special fund shall be financed as follows :
(a) The contribution of the European Coal and Steel Community shall be :
– for the first year, 0-266 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than 4 million u.a. ;
– for the second year, 0-333 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than 5 million u.a. ;
+– for subsequent years, 0-400 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more tKan 6 million u.a. per annum . ■
(b) The Member States shall provide the following overall contributions, on the scale shown in para­ graph 3 below :
– for the first year,, 0-627 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than 9-4 million u.a. ;
– for the second year, 0-560 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than 8-4 million u.a. ;
– for the third and fourth years, 0-493 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than 7-4
million u.a. per annum ;
– for the fifth year, 0-273 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than 41 million u.a.;
– f°r the sixth year, 0-207 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than 3-1 million u.a. ;
+ Instead of "for subsequent years", read "for the years 1975 and 1976"
+ Add a 4th indent : "from 1977» 0,388888 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie 7 million u.a. per annum".
+ Delete the last two indents
Add, indents 4» 5 and 6 as follows :
+ "4) for the years 1977 "to 1983, 0.516666 u«.a. per metric ton of coal, ie 9*3 million u.a. per
+ "5) for the year 1984, 0.333333 u.a. 3111111151 *
per metric ton of coal , ie 6 million u.a.
+ "6) for the year 1985» 0.277777 u.a. per metric ton
of coal, ie 5 million u.a. per annum". 1
 (c) The overall contribution of the iron and steel industry not referred to in Article 6, second indent, shall be :
– for the first four years, 1-107 u.a. per' metric- ton of coal, ie, not more than 16-6 million u.a.
+ – for the fifth year, 1 -027 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than 15-5 million u.a. ;
+ – for the sixth year, 0-593 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than 8-8 million u.a.
The overall amount of the contribution shall be appor­ tioned among the iron and steel undertakings on the basis of their consumption of blast-furnace coke.
The contribution of the iron and steel industries referred to in Article 6, second indent, is calculated on the basis of the rate per metric ton of consumption applicable to the other undertakings.
+ delete the last two indents ;
t add indents 2, 3 and 4 as follows :
+ "2) for the years 1977 to 1983, 1.09444 iwa.per
metric ton of coal, ie 19.7 million u.a^ger. + "3) for the year 1984» 1.02222 u.a. per metric
ton of coal, ie 18.4 million u.a. per annum ; + "4) for the year 1985, 0.622222 u.a. per metric
ton of coal, ie 11.2 million u.a. per annum".
+ delete the final sentence :
 3, The contribution to be provided by the Member States shall be on the following scafe j
Italy Luxembourg Netherlands
1. The supplier States may apply for reimburse­ ment from the special fund of aids actually paid.
2. The Commission shall check the applications and determine the amounts to be reimbursed from the special fund to the Member States concerned^If the tonnages concerned exceed the limit fixed in Article 7 (1), the reimbursements shall be correspond­ ingly reduced. The percentage of the reduction is the same for each of the supplier States. + -
3. The Commission shall fix the contributions to
be paid into the special fund on the basis ofl'these ♦amounts and the contributions by the iron and steel
industries referred to in Article 7 (1) above.
4. To speed up Community financing, the supplier countries shall notify the Commission of the deliv­ eries of coking coal qualifying for aid made during the preceding quarter under Article 6. On the basis of these notifications, the Commission shall request the Member States to pay the corresponding amounts. The Commission shall forthwith apportion these amounts between the supplier States, at the same time as the corresponding contribution of the European Coal and Steel Community. The Commission shall call for contributions from the steelmaking undertak­ ings and immediately apportion the payments among the States concerned.
5. The final accounts shall be settled at the begin­ ning of each calendar year in respect of the preceding - year.
General and final provisions
1- The Commission shall take into account the aids
provider for in this Decision in assessing whether the aids referred to ^ Articles 6 to 9 of Decision No
3/71/ECSC of 22 December 1970 are liable to inter- fere with the proper functioning of the Common Market-
Instead of "If the tonnages ••• Article 7(l)»
read : "If the total tonnage or amounts concerned exceedvthe annual limits fixed in Article 7 (l) and (2)".
After : "supplier States", add : "after applica­ tion when appropriate of the provisions cf Article 7» first paragraph, second sentence ".
of "of. these amounts ", read to he reimbursed". "~–~~
+ Delete "and the contributions by the iron and steel industries referred to in Article 7 (l) above.
+ Instead of "Articles 6 to 9 of Decision XJO j/yl/fidSC of 22 December 1970"» read
"Articles 6 to 12 of Decision No. 52ti/"?&/ECSC of 25 February 1976".
 2. The Commission shall also ensure that the aids
provided for in this Decision do not have the effect of distorting conditions of competition between coal, coke and ircn or steel undertakings.
1. In an emergency, and otherwise at the end of the first year of application of this Decision and then
every two y ars, the Commission may, by decisions taken aftc consultation v/ith the Consultative Committee and after the unanimous assent of the Council has been given, amend :
– the rate of the sales aids,
– the cei'/ng to intra-Community trade,
– the rules governing the financing of the special fund,
– the scale referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3.
These amendments shall take account of the long- term trend of supply conditions and the supply pattern within the enlarged Community.
2. If at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative the Commission finds that :
(a) the implementation of this Decision is liable to give rise to serious disturbances in the common market for coal and steel, or to difficulties which may result in a deterioration in the regional economy, or that
(b) appreciable changes are taking place in the condi­ tions, volume or pattern of intra-Community trade, thus altering the economic conditions prompting the adoption of this Decision, it may suspend application of this Decision. It shall refer the matter to the Council forthwith.
4. In an emergency, the Commission shall, on the request of a Member State, lay down without delay the necessary safeguarding measures, notify the other Member States accordingly and refer the matter to the Council forthwith.
The Commission shall periodically report to the Council on the application of this Decision and on developments in the supply situation, in particular in connection with intra-Community trade.
If at the request of a Member State or acting on
its own initiative the Commission finds that perfor­ mance of the long-term contracts is jeopardizing the attainment of the objectives of this Decision, it may, in respect of the undertakings in question, limit the benefits deriving from the application of Article 1.
I After consulting the Council and the Consultative Committee, the Commission shall take all measures
^' necessary for the application* of this Decision.
'+ This Decision shall enter into force on 1 August 1973.
! Sections I, II and III apply retrospectively from 1
January 1973 to deliveries of coking coal and coke effected since that date. The applications provided for in Article 2 (2) in respect of 1973 shall be submitted
| by 31 October 1973. For the year 1973 the provisions 1 concerning the payment of aids (Article 2 (1) (c))„
possible rebates in the absence of actual competition Article 3 (1)), and Community financing (Article 7) (hall apply notwithstanding the absence of a long- lerm contract.
this Decision ceases to be operative after 31 December 1978.
Done at Brussels, 25 July 1973.
+ read "This decision shall enter into force on 1st January 1977* It ceases to "be operative after 31st December 1985* This Decision shall "be "binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Meinher States".
For the Commission
for the Commission The President,
The President.
 Commentary on proposed modifications to the Text of Decision 73/287/ECSC of 25 July 1973 concer­ ning coking coal and coke for the iron and steel
industry in the Community
Article 1 a) in fine : It will be expressly provided that the "price" crite­ rion to be used in determining production aid shall relate directly to the guide cif prices referred to
This will confirm the practice followed since 1970 ; the guide price traces the evolution of "long-term supply conditions". The new wording is at the request of a member State government .
Article 1 b) : The maximum rate of sales aid will be applicable not only to coastal installations , but equally to inland installations for
which maritime transport is essentially part of the supply route (continental supplies in the cas-e of the United Kingdom).
Article 1 b) : The degression in sales aid originally provided for in years (continuation) ^ ^ (1977 and 1978) will be transferred to the end of the
new period of validity (1984 and 1985) "the rates applicable in 1976 being maintained up to 1983.
Applications will be called for three months later than at present. In this way the market information relevant to 1 Ja­ nuary of the year under consideration will be available to the Commission as will be the information provided by Member States regarding measures taken to assist the coal-mining industry
under decision 528/76/ECSC of 25.2.76 (information notified by 1 November).
Article 6, 2nd indent s By deletion of this text the special arrangements for the British steel industry contribution will be terminated. The amount concerned (+ 3 mua) will be transferred to the special fund instead of to the British government.
The intervention tonnage for aid in respect of intra-Community trade will be increased from 15 to 18 mt and considered as an annual average instead of a ceiling. Provision is therefore
made for any contribution nnot needed in slack years to be used. _
in years of strong demand. ./.
The reference to article 6 will "be dropped.
Article 7»2. a,btc, : Increasing the ceiling and maintaining rates of aid at the 1976 level requires an increase in the fund and adjustment of the three annual contributions ; as with the existing system, the degression for 1984 and 1985 reduces the State and Steel industry contributions, (see attached table).
Article 7»2. in fine : This sentence refers to the British Steel Industry and no longer applies.
The new wording needs to cover both possible cases of the limit being exceeded (tonnage and amounts). is made to the possibility of carrying over as provided for in Article 7.1.
Rephrased and referrence to the British steel industry deleted.
Modified to relate to the provisions of the new decision re­ garding measures taken by the Member States to assist the coal mining industry (Decision 528/76).
Extension of validity to 31 December 1985*
Coking coal - Financing the Community Fund - Yearly amounts
ECSC : Participates with 1 mua in 6 (l6 $) towards the increase in charges. Same percentage of the total (19 $) throughout the period to 1983.
Sates :Participate with 2.3 mua in 6 towards the increase in charges - Same percentage of the total (26 %<)• In 1984 , degression benefit of 3.3 mua ( 9.3 - 3.3 = 6 ) as provided for from 1976 to I977 .
In I984 degression (l mua) as provided for from 1977 to 1978.
Steel indBtry : I976 percentage ( 55 %) maintained through to I983 .
In 1984, degression of 1.3 mua (against 1 mua provided for from 1976 to 1977). In 1985 : degression - 7.20 mua (against 6.70 provided for from 1977 "to 1978).
Re t Extension and modification of decision No 73/287/ECSC concerning coking coal and coke for the iron and steel industry in the Community (O.J. Ho 259/36 of 15«9*73)
Consultation with the Consultative Committee :
Opinion of the European Parliament (facultative) : Economie and Social Committee :
Assent of the Council
end of November not applicatile
end of December
 Verlangorunj und A^icrang aer ;s - ~ '^ng i,r* i ■'• ■ ,• °
modifications to decision 73/287/FKSC concerning coal and coke for the iron and steel industry in the Community
 Economic considerations relevant xo t.-ie extension or.d amendment of 'Decision Ko 73/2fc7/ECoG of 25 July 19 concerning coal and coke for the 1 roil rmd steel ina -,- -
try in the Community (l)
Appropriate measures must be adopted if trie ooectxves of Community energy policy a.re to be achieved.
Security of supply on ecor:.omically satisfactory terms , of blast-fur­ nace coke , a raw material indispensable to iron and steel making requires the Community's coal production capability to be maintained in the long term -
i.e. both the capacity and the labour needed to run it properly. Mining ca­ pacitor is usually linked with equally large coking capacity.
Financial aids to the coal industry are still essential if it is to be in a position to sell coking coal , especially in areas far away from the coalfields , without any risk of triggering a rise in world coking-coal prices* ,
It is therefore in the "common interest" cf tho Member States and of the coal and steel industries to take part in an operation designed to achieve several of the objectives laid down in Articles 2 and 3 of the ECSC Treaty,
By this is meant the extension to 1985 of the arrangements for coking ccal provided up to 1978® The period originally planned has proved too short in view of the structural changes in the energy sector since 1974»
The extension would be accompanied by financial adjustments better suited to the new duration and which could have been examined under Article 10 of the existing Decision.
1 . Like its forerunners , Decision 73/ 287 is meant to help the coal in­ dustry to produce the necessary amount of coking coal and sell it as blast- furnace coke, whereas - in the absence of any such measure - a substantial
reduction of capacity could still prove necessary.
2. The expiry date is 31 December I978. In I977 and I97Q the amount of Community finanoe in aid of intra-Community trade will each year be reduced
by 15 "p relative to the previous year in line with the objective that the
steel industry should cover its total coke supply costs when the system comes to an end.
3. At the time this decision was taken, a, period of six years was deemed sufficient for the coal and steel industries to put their relations on a footing consistent with the principles laid down by the Treaty.
Intervening events, and decisions or guidelines adopted in the mean­ time , have changed the outlook in several respects .
In the energy sector, the "Medium-term guidelines for coal 1975-1985" (lJ and the Council Resolution of 17 December 1974 (2) envisage the mainte­
nance of a high level of Community coal production over this period as a contribution to Community energy supplies. This level can be achieve.;1 only if there is stable , steady disposal of production .
As regards coking coal , this involves firm , long-term commitments on the part of the iron and steel industry.
As regards this industry, recent experience underlines the desirabi­ lity of its taking a long.view of the possibilities and conditions of its supplies of Community coking coal .
'i . The Community has already taken or planned a number of measures to
aid implementation of the guidelines for the coal industry. On 25 February
1976 the Commission adopted a new decision on Community arrangements regar­ ding aids granted by the Member States to the coalmining industry (528/76/ECSCX;' This Decision will be in force until 31 December 19$5» Commission consi­ ders that there is no certainty that in view of its financial situation, the coal industry can implement the guidelines on its own.
(1) C0M(Y4)l860 final of 21 November 1974 (2) o.j. No c 153 of 9 J'uiy 1975; P» 2 (3) O.J. No L 63 of 11 March 1916. P* 1
 In its oommunxoation to the Council »implementation .n -no enwr/
-y ; guidelines drawn up by the European Gounoii at its mee'^ag in ilosne on 1 and 2 Deoewber 1975" (l)» +-he Commission propose that, with some adjustments, the decision on coking coal should be extended to 19 Other measures are planned for the protection or development o? Community coal, none of which should duplicate the system applying to coking coal. In parti­
cular, Decision 528/76 does not take into account the fact that there are sizeable intra-Conurmnity trade flows in coking coal and that the existence of Community coking-coal production is of concern to all the Kember States.
In line with the "guidelines for coal", it appears essential that
producers and consumers of Community coking coal and coke should be given the opportunity of keeping or placing their contractual relations on a more permanentbasisthanwasenvisagedin1973, byextendingthevalidityofthe
5. The following considerations show the desirability of such a system :
5.1. Upto1985, theoverallvolumeandbreakdownofCommunitysuppliesof coking coal and coke should not differ essentially from the pattern of recent
The increase in the production of pig iron will be compensated by a reduction in the specific consumption of coke. The introduction of formed coke and other processes will effectively widen the range of coals suitable for coking ; this will only be a gradual development. The world market for classic coking coals, though important, will remain limited in terms of vo­ lume and elasticity.
Community production - even though it may be affected by economic, and geological considerations in certain coalfields - will continue to offer im­ portantcoverageofrequirementsinconditionsofsecurity, regularityand quality which are still important considerations.
Intra-Community trade will continue to play an essential role in terms
of quantity and. quality while helping the recipient countries to improve thevalueoftheirresources. Inthisway,intra-Communitytradewill
remain an important factor for cross-penetration.of energy markets. (l) 0011(76)20 of 16 January 1976
 ').2 . 'f-ie Communrty coal industry , winch generally produces coking coals and steam coals t-jgether can - by accurately programming the
tonnages of coking coal and coke contracted over the long term by the iron ant steel industry ~ optimize its capital and operating costs
for the entire output of coal and of mine-owned coking plants, thus
limiting the protection and development costs which the Community as a whole and each, of the producer countries would otherwise have to envisage.
Despite the considerable price rises on the world market, Community cokinq coal is still not always competitive .
5.3. The iron and steel industry can obtain coking coal on a long-term "basis at Community prices as close as possible to world prices for comparable transactions. It can take a longer view of the need for or desirability of goihg to the world market for a proportion of its requirements, It has, within the Community , stocks or , should the occasion arise , storage capaci­ ties enabling it to counter the effects of peaks and troughs in the business cycle - as occurred in 1974 and 1975. It can thus limit uncertainties sur­ rounding its supplies of an essential raw material.
All these considerations fit in with the basic objectives laid down in Articles 2 and 3 of the Treaty.
5.4. The specific arrangements for coking-coal are intended to ensure equa­ lity of treatment , as regards aids , of Community coalmining companies where the cost of producing coking coal exceeds a common reference level . They also permit the application of prices based on the reference level by broadening, in respect of alignment, the possibilities open to coal undertakings under
the final sub-paragraph of Article 60 (2)(b) of the Treaty. This offsets remaining restrictions in commercial policy which tend to impede inteqration .
6« A3 stated above, there is no intention of changing the general lines of the arrangements, merely of extending their application and adapting cer­ tain financial points in line with the spirit of Article 10 of Decision 73/287.
 ('.I - Tho following provision a would remain unchanged in oubst H&oe ;
~ production aid fixod annually for each coalfield, limited to the difference
between costs and the corresponding price at aorld level ;
- sales aid. intended to facilitate intra-Community t^:ide &nd erdoa in areas
remote from the coalfield ; given the difference trcisVlng in these cases between the world level and the Community delivered prices, the aid should represent a permanent incentive to rationalise production and improve the cost situation ;
- production aid paid by the producing Member State and sales aid for deli­ veries in the same country ;
- a special fund for financing sales aids applying to intra-Gommunity trade ; through its contribution related to its use of blast–furnace coke, the . steel industry would express its interest in maintaining Community coking coal production.
In keeping with its long-term objectives the decision will maintain the dispositions relating to long–term contracts for supplies from within
the Community and to guide prices which trace the long-term evolution of conditions relevant to supplies from outside the Community. In order to con­ firm the practice which has been followed since 1970? disposition relating to the determination of rates of production aid will refer expressly to the
xle prices. Long-term contracts constitute the base for assessment of both production and sales aid ; with their reasonable degree of
flexibility, they enable both sides to plan for the long term and they help to reduce the stocks problem. Also the amendment clause (Article 10) would
be maintained ; the introduction of the SUA from 1 January 197° appears to alleviate the consequence of any monetary measures (l).
6.2. The amendments would relate to the following points :
- extension of the period of application up to the end of I985, "the
limit for the ".guidelines for coal" and Decision 520/76 >
- maintenance of the sales aid rates applying in 1976 (3 and 1.6 . u.a . , ding on the consumer 's location ) until 19 83 ; postponement until 1984 1985 of the reduced rates planned for 1977 and 1978 under the present
depen­ and arran­
- raising the intervention ceiling of the special fund for intra-Community
sales aids : this ceiling would rise from 15 "to the more realistic level of 18 million tonnes a year (it was set at 17 million tonnes between IJ and 1973 and the trade shows no tendency to'decline). This tornage would also be considered as an annual average for the period l£77-i9°3 |
(1) All the rates expressed in u.a. in uhe Decision as nov vmrded would have to be converted into ISITA following publication of "'ho Deo:.uion. on tiiio:
question planned by the Commission.
 contribution not needed in .years of low steel produotion could thus oe
used in years of strong demand ;
- financing : if the above measures are adopted, the fund would increase
from 30 million u.a . in 1976 to 36 million u.a . for 1977 - 19*83 . The difference of 6 mua would have to be split among the three sources of
contri Dutions , say as ECSC
As regard the iron and steel industry, it would be enough for the Fund to be credited with the British Steel contribution currently paid to the UK government.
The degression planned for 19$4 19^5 modelled on that currently planned for 1977 and 1978, but accentuated slightly for the iron and steel industry *
Braft modifications to decision 73/287/EC30 concerning coal sxid coke for the iron and steel ir;dyst::y in tho Community
Comparative text showing the modifications proposed by the Commission (right-hand column) and the existing text (loft-hand column) (l)
Aids by Member Slates
ArlnIt I
The Member Slnles arc iHitltorireil to grant to coal undertakings under their jurisdiction v/hii h supply
coining coo! and l>l:>sf-luniace coke lo the Community iron and steel industry .tills lo l.uiht.iie production, marketing in regions far away from the production areas and irilia-Community Irade. .nut the conclusion and implementation of long-term contracts lor supply anil olUction. To this end the following aids may be Cî.mîro :
(«) a production nicl, for wlmli the ^uvernmvtUN shall
each )c.\r determine a rate per coalfield, while taking particular account of the average costs of
production in that coalfieUH-[he price of coking + .fIonnsteand of "the price «o«.»..» conditions"
thc+sixth year of the term of the Decision. These levels are determined on the basis of the rates
applicable for the first year of application, without prejudice to the provisions of Article 10. No scale adopted by a government shall introduce any element of discrimination into the aids relating to the deliveries made by the coal undertakings.
(l) 06J. lîo. L 259/36 of 15*9.1973
of "sixth "
read "and the price of coking CcoOal in its principal sales area calculated from the guide cif prices referred to in article 5».1"»
coal in ils principal sales area and the long-term
supply conditions ;
(b) a sales aid applying to deliveries to areas remote
from (lie coalfield or effected by way of intra- Contmunity trade. The rale of any such aid may
not exceed I u.a. per metric ton of coking coal in
the case of deliveries to installations which can he
supplied direct via maritime transporrf-and i -f>o
u.a. per metric ton ill all other cases. I liese rates
shall be reduced to 2-60 and I 411 u.a. respectively
for thcHifth year and 2 ami I u.a. respectively lor -f. Instead of "fifth year" reod"last year but one5'
t. Where a Member State makes use oI its option under Article I , the following rules shall apply :
(a) the aids shall he paid to the coking-coal producer undertakings in respect of their disposals of their own coal ;
(b) the aids may he paid only where the coal is used for coking and the coke in question is actually consumed in the hlast furnaces of the Community
iron ami steel industry ;
(c) the aids tnav he paid only where deliveries of coking i o.il and Mast-furnacc coke are made under a long-term contract.
2. The production aids uferred to in Article I (a) of this Decision mav he paid only after the rates thereof ha\e hem atiihon/ed by the Commission '1 he authori­ sation shall be given bv the Commission with due regard to the tiiicna referred to in Ailide I (a) For this purpose Member States shall. hv+'iH September of each lear. submit then applications tor the following calendar year, togctlict Willi supporting documents. 'I he Commission shall give its ruling within two
mouths alter recupt ol the application.
$. The sates aid referred to in Article I (b) may be granted ordv if it is passed on in the foim of price
rebate to the purchaser of coking coal or blast hmi.icc coke. When a coal undertaking passes the production aid on to his buyers. this shall not give rise to discrimi­ nation between the \arious long term coniiacts to be performed by that undertaking.
1 . Coal umfetakings are authorized, v. here neces­ sary. to grant rebates on their list prices, (or disposals of coking coal and hlasi-furnace coke for the Commu­ nity iron iind steel industry under long-term contract, even where there is no actual competition from coal or coke from non-member countries at the point of consumption .
+ Instead of "30 September" read "31 December"
 2 The rebates allowed under (1) above shall not cause the delivered prices of Comn.un.ry coal and coke to work out lower than those winch would be charged (or coking coal from non-member countries and coke made from non-member country coking
3 All other provisions concerning the alignment provided for bv Arlicle 60 2 (b) last subparagraph of tl.c Treaty, and decisions in implementation theieof. shall apply to the transactions referred to in (1) above, in particular those which allow the Commission, in the event of abuse, to abrogate or restrict the right of
the undertakings concerned to grant such rebates.
Should an undertaking infringe the rules laid down .n Article X the provisions of Article 64 of the Treaty shall apply.
| The delivered prices of coking coal from non- member countries referred to in Article (2) shall be calculated from the prices c.f Community ports for comparable transactions. The Commission may fix guide cif prices.
2 The delivered prices of blast-furnace coke from non-member countries referred to in Arlicle *(2) shal |,c <nictitated from the cif prices for coking coal referred to in (I) above in such a way as to cover in (nil the net coking costs of the supplying coking plants. Standard values therefor may be laid down by the Commission.
J. The Commission may lay down criteria for the assessment of differences in grade in coking coal and coke .
Community financing arrangements
Community financing arrangements shall be set up for :
_ sales aids paid in pursuance of Section I of this
Decision in respect of intra-Community trade , + +'– the amount of the contributions by the iron and
steel industries of member countries not engaged
in intra-Community trade, insofar as their produc­
tion of coking coal covers at least 75 Vo of the
requirements of their blast-furnaces.
A special fund administered by the Commission shall be instituted for this purpose.
 t The C:-w r.n^ie> finsmcinr arrdnpor.K-r.t ? shMi row fi cjuantity of o.-l :itl; < unì amomttiiy? te «to
"The Community financing arrangements c-iall t>e limited to on average annual tonnage of 'J8 Dillion metric tours and to the contributions dotoiled in
paragraph 2 . The above average annual tonnage and the- annual contributions detailed below may 'be exceeded in a given year to the extent of any tonnage and contribution not taken up in another year<> The rates of contribution per metric ton of coal detailed below may not be exceeded".
th.»n IS million rk . ic tt-iis per nnm;m .
L. nnyml o' the fihc-.e.
2. The spcci.il fund shall be financial as follcws :
(a'» The contribution of (he European Coal and Sterl Community shali be :
{or ihe firs! year, 0-2fi' u.a. per metric tors oi coal, ie, no* mere fh.iri 4 miHron u.a. ;
– for the tccond year, 0-"?.U ti.a. per metric 'on of rail, ic. nnt more than 1 million trjt. ;
4 Instead of "for subsequent years'", eroad "for the years 1975 and 1976 "
4' Pelote the laat tvro indent. s:
+ for the yeav& 1577 to U u,a. ptr metric ton of coal• ic 9».i m 'l_op r.ra- _P"J"
The MctMbci States shall provide the following ovev^i ! r>. «mril'.;itic»is , o\i she scr»!e shown fn pn?a- graph 3 below :
– for ?he first year,, 0-62? u a. per rm*tric ion of cool , se . n.A nunc Elwn nuiiion u.a . .
– for ihe second year, 0-')60 u.a, per meinc 'on of coal, ic, f'O? more than 8-4 rn«51ion u.a.;
--- lor 'he s»*?h yerr, > .<'.0'/ u. , ?>e: wc^r-.r :.on o( te. ^T''. r^rc • :JXJI 3-'. n^;cf :
4- "5} for the year 1934-. 0,J32ji? ''-J-
per metric ton of l'oj.:., :i.e ?.■ ®i.'.r.o-1 Ue£-. per a'rvnui/J ;
to rcad i
 (c) The overall contribution of the iron and steel industry not referred to in Article 6, second indent, shall be :
for (lie first four years, I-107 u.a. per metric ton of coal, it, not more than 16 6 million u.a. per annum ;
for the fifth year, I 027 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than I VS million u.a. :
for the sixth year, 0 .S9.1 u.a. per metric ton of coal, ie, not more than KH million u.a.
I lie overall amount of the contribution shall he appor- tinned nnionj? the iron and steel undertakings on the
of their con>urni>tioi> of bhist-furiuee tola*.
+ he contribution of the iron .»nd su-el industries
ref.ned to m .Article a, second nuKnt. calculated on
|M-,S ,l,t' "«<■■ |H-r metric ton of consumption applicable to the other imdvrt.ikini's.
+ delete the last two indents ;
add indents 2, 3 and 4 ao follows :
7 "2) for the years 1977 to 1983 , I.O9444 iwj. per
metric ton of coal, io 19.7 million u.a, per \ - cuiiiCua m
+ "3; for the year 1984, 1.02222 u.a. per motric
ton of coal, ie 18.4 million u.a* per annum ; + "4) for the year 1985, 0.622222 u.a. per metric
ton of coal, ie 11.2 million u.a. per annum".
"The contribution ........ other undertakings".
 3. The contribut on to be provided by the Member States shall be on the following scale :
Italy Luxembourg Netherlands
1. The supplier States may apply for reimburse­ ment from (lie special fund of aids actually paid.
2 . The Commission shall check ( lie applications and determine tl?e amount1, to lie reimbursed from [he special (unci to the Member Slates concerned'-,'lf
the toim-ipcs concerned exceed the limit tixed ill Article 7 ( I ), the reimbursements shall be coirespond-
Inr.tead of "If the tonna^oo .
. I lie percentage of the reduction is the
road : "If the -total tonnage or amounts concerned. exceed tho annual limits fixed in Article ^ (l)
tion when appropriate of the provisions of Article 7t first paragraph , second sentence ".
+ Instead of "of these amounts". read "the amounts 1 to be reimourocd • –––
Pelcte "and tho contributions by the iron and oteol industries referred to in Article 7 (l) above.
same for each of the supplier States. +
3. Ihc Commission shall fix the contributions to
be paid into the special fund on the basis ofHhese + amounts and the contributions by the iron and steel
industries refened to in Article 7 (I) above.
4. To speed up Community financing, the supplier fmmliics sh.ill notify the Commission of the deliv­ eries of coking coal qualifying for aid made during the pietcding quarter under Article 6. On the basis of these notifications, the Commission shall request the Member Stales to pay 'he corresponding amounts . The Commission shall forthwith apportion these amounts between the supplier States, at the same time as the corresponding contribution of the European Coal and Steel Community. The Commission shall call for contributions from the steehnaking undertak­ ings and immediately apportion the payments among the Slates concerned.
5. The final accounts shall be settled at the begin­ ning of each calendar year in respect of the preceding year.
General and final provisions
I. The Commiv ion shall take into account the aids
provided for in th ; . Decision in assessing whether the aids relerred to i--$*Articles £ to 9 of tJeciMon No .V7I / ILCSC ol 11 .J -cemher I (*70 are iiyhlo lo inter­ fere with the preper functioning of '.lie Common Mmkct.
Instead of "Articles 6 to 9 of Dsciaion Tio~rff£f&SC Of 22 December 19?0", read "Articles 6 to 12 of Decision Ho«
of 25 February V)76"a
2. The Commission shall also ensure that the aids provided for in this Decision do not have the effect of distorting conditions of competition between coal , coke and iron or steel undertakings.
1. In an emergency, awl otherwise at the end of the first year of application of this Decision and then
every two years, the Commission may. by decisions taken after consultation with the Consultative Committee and after the unanimous assent of the Council has been given, amend :
– the rate of the sales aids,
– the ceiling to intra-Comimmity trade.
– the rules governing the financing of the special fund .
– the scale referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3.
These amendments shall take account of the long- tcrm trend of supply conditions ami the supply pattern within the enlarged Community.
2. If at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative the Commission finds that :
(a) the implementation of this Decision is liable to give rise to serious disturbances in the common market for coal and steel, or to difficulties which
may result in a deterioration in the regional economy, or that
(b) appreciable changes are taking place in the condi­ tions , volume or pattern of infra-Community trade , thus altering the economic conditions prompting the adoption of this Decision, »t may suspend application of this Decision. Ii :>ha!I refer the matter to the Council forthwith.
4. In an emergency, the Commission shall, on the request of a Member State, lay down without delay the necessary safeguarding measures , notify the other Member States accordingly and refer the matter to the Council forthwith.
The Commission shall periodically report to the Council on the application of this Decision and on developments in the supply situation, in particular in connection with intra-Community trade.
If at the request of a Member State or acting on
its own initiative the Commission finds that perfor­ mance of the long-term contracts is jeopardizing (he attainment of the objectives of this Decision, it may, in respect of the undertakings in question, limit the benefits deriving from the application of Article 1.
 A-rlith }?
After consulting tlu' Council .met (lie Consultative Committee, the Commission shall take all measures nctf '.iry for the .if plication of tins Decision .
+ THIS Decision shall cntef into force on 1 August I '>73.
Set lions I. II and I 'll apply retrospectively Irom I
January 197.? to deliveries of coking coal ami coke effected since that date. The applications provided for
in ArmIt 2 (1) in respect of !'>'.) shall he siihmitted
by 31 October 1">73. l or the year I *>7.1 the provisions concerning the payment of aids (Aiticlc 2 (1) (c)),
possible rebates in the absence of nttn.il competition (Armle ? (I)), and Community financinp (Annie 7) shall apply notwithstanding the absence of a loitg- term contract .
This Decision ceases to be operative after 31 December IV7X .
Done at Brussels, It July 1973.
/ or thi Commission
+ refd "This decicicm shall enter into force on lot January 1977. It ceases to bo operative after 31st Dscembor 1983. This Incision shall "be binding 'in its entirety snd directly applicable in all Member States"#
for the Commiosion The President .
 Commentary on proposed modifications to the Text of Decision 73/287/ECSC of 25 July 1973 concer­ ning coking coal and coke for the iron and steel
industry in the Community
Article 1 a) in fine : It will be expressly provided that the "price" crite­ rion to be used in determining production aid shall relate directly to the guide cif prices referred to
This will confirm the practice followed since 1970 ; the guide price traces the evolution of "long-term supply conditions". The new wording is at the request of a member State government .
Article 1 b) : The maximum rate of sales aid will be applicable not only to coastal installations , but equally to inland installations for which maritime transport is essentially part of the supply route (continental supplies in the case of the United Kingdom).
Article 1 b) : The degression in sales aid originally provided for in years
5 and 6 (1977 and- 1978) will be transferred to the end of the
new period of validity (198/J and I985) the rates applicable in 1976 being maintained up to I983 .
Applications will be called for three months later than at present. In this way the market information relevant to 1 Ja­
nuary of the year under consideration will be available to the Commission as will be the information provided by Member States regarding measures taken to assist the coal-mining industry under decision 528/76/ECSC of 25.2.76 (information notified
Arbicle 6, 2nd indent : By deletion of this text the special arrangements for the British steel industry contribution will be terminated, The amount concerned (+ 3 mua) will be transferred to the special fund instead of to the British government.
The intervention tonnage for aid in respect of intra–1Community trade will be increased from 15 .to 18 mt and considered o.s an annual average instead of a ceiling. Provision is therefore made for any contribution nnot needed in slack eary to be
in years of strong demand. „
 Tne . ct: :,3 "to artJcie 6 will ue d -p::<ea
Article 7*2* a, 'o, c, - Increasing 'the ceiling anu ;iiaii)tainiii£* rates of aid at the 197- level requires an increase in the fund and adjustment of the three annual contributions ; as with the existing system, the degression for 1984 and 1985 reduces the State
and Steel industry contributions , ( see attached table ).
Article 7«2. in fine : This sentence refers to the British Steel Industry and no longer applies.
The new wording needs to cover both possible cases of the limit being exceeded (tonnage and amounts). is made to the possibility of carrying over as provided for in Article J,l»
Rephrased and. referrence to the British steel industry deleted.
Modified to relate to the provisions of the new decision re­ garding measures taken by the Member States to assist the coal mining industry (Decision 528/76).
Extension of validity to 31 December I985.
Others : 12.84 mt)
Coking coal - Financing the Coranur.it7 Fund - Yearly amounts (For comparison)
ECSC : Participates with 1 mua in 6 (16 io) te3wards the increase in charges. Same percenta30 of the period to 1983-
Sates :Participate with 2.3 mua in 6 towards the increase in charges - Same percentage^of the tota_ (-0 ,»<).
In 1984, degression benefit of 3*3 mu.a (9*3 - 3.3 = 6) as provided for from 197° In 1984 degression ',1 mua.) as provided for from 1977 "k° 1978.
Steel indE-try : 1976 percentare (55 '/>) maintained through to 19^3• ^ . In I984, degression of 1.3 rnua (against 1 mua provided for from 197° to 1977)« In I985 : degression - 7.20 mua (against 6.70 provided for from 1977 to 197-0•
for t "30.
