 "P^ci^ion of the Commission concerning limitation periods in
prcerjed'ingg aad the enforoennnt of sanctions tinder the rvJ.es of the Treat.r establishing the Ei5ropean Coal and Steel Community.
3*y the attaohed draft decision the Commission proposes to introduce
rules concerning limitation periods for the financial penalties (fines, periodic penalty payments) provided for by the ECSC treaty# These rules apply first to the imposition of fines (limitation periods in proceedings) and secondly to the enforcement of Individual decisions which impose fines or periodic penalty payments (limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions ). The decision determines the periods of limitation ( three or five years for proceedings and five years for enforcement), the moment from which time "begins to run, and the acts which interrupt or suspend
the limitation period.
The legal "basis for the adoption of this decision is to "be found in the fir3t i*nd second paragraphs of Article 95 of the ECSC Treaty, under which the decision may be adopted by the Commission after having consulted the Consultative Committee and obtained the unanimous assent of the Council.
Even though it is not in any event necessary, no opinion need be sought f from the European Parliament in this case. The draft decision corresponds in all essential respects to Regulation (EEC) No. 2988/74 of the Council of 26 November 1974 concerning limitation periods in proceedings and the enforcement of sanctions under the rules of the EEC Treaty (O.J. L319
of 29.1"!.74 p. 1) in the formulation of which the European Parliament exerted considerable influence. The Commission will inform the European Parliament of the progress of the proposed legislation.
Opinion of the Consultative Committee: 1»6.77
Assent by the Council: 1.12.77
limitation periods in proceedings and enforcement of sanctions -under the Treaty establishing the European
Coal and Steel Community
(Communication of Kir. Vouel)
Preparation of Document
Directorate-General responsivie: Competition Associated Services :
Directorate-General for Industrial and Technological Affairs Directorate-General for Social Affairs
Directorate-General for Energy Directorate-General for Credit and Investments
 Jote for the attention of Members of the Commission
On 26 November 1974 the Council, acting on a proposal by the Commission, made Regulation (EEC) No. 2988/74 concerning limitation periods in proceedings aad in the enforcement of sanctions under the rules of the European Economic Community on- transport and competition (OJ L 319, 29 November 1974, p. l ).
By that Regulation, which had taken many years in preparation, the Council introduced into the law of the EEC precise limitation rules applying to
fines and periodic penalty payments.
Such rules are still lacking in the field of the ECSC Treaty, although this Treaty also provides in a great many articles for pecuniary sanctions in the form of fines and periodic penalty payments. Because of the differences which exist between the rule making procedures of the EEC and the ECSC, extending Regulation (EEC) No. 2988/74 to the law of the ECSC - which has been proposed on several occasions following discussions in the Economic and Social Committee and in the European Parliament - is out of the question. However, the Commission has affirmed its intention of intro­ ducing as soon as possible limitation periods in proceedings and in the enforcement of sanctions -under the ECSC Treay as well, taking account of the rules made by the Council for the EEC.
This is the purpose of the present draft Decision which will have binding force within the meaning of Articles 14 and 15 of the ECSC Treaty. The proposed Decision has been modelled as closely as possible on the text of Regulation (EEC) No. 2988/74 as regards the structure, content and form of its provisions.
The present Decision is based specifically on Article 95(l) and- (2) of the ECSC Treaty. By virtue cf this Article, the Decision can be made upon the unanimous consent of the Council and after consulting the Consultative Committee .
The relevant provisions of the ECSC Treaty do not include the European Parliament in the legislative procedure. It would, nevertheless, seem to
be indicated that Parliament should be informed of the initiative taken by the Commission.
Consequently, it is proposed to the Commission that: '#■I-
*- the draft Decision (EC2C) concerning limitation periods in proceedings and in the enforcement of sanctions under the
, Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community
should be adopted (Annex- l );
– it should be transmitted to the Consultative Committee
(Annex 2) and to the Council (Annex 3); ' . v .
– the European Parliament should be informed of this Decision ' (Annex 4). •
Commipsicn Decision (ECSC) concerning limitation periods in proceedings and enforcement of sanctions under the Treaty establishing the European
Coal and Steel Community
Rgascns for the Décision. I
Cn 2o November 1974 "the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission, made Regulation (EEC) 2988/74 concerning limitation periods in proceedings and in the enforcement of sanctions under the rules of the European Economic Community on transport and competition^. The Regulation came into force on 1 January 1975 and covered a gap in Community law. The Commission's power to inpose pecuniary sanctions upon enterprises and associations of enterprises under the EEC Treaty, which has real importance in administrative practice, had never previously been subject to the principle of limitation.
In making Regulation (EEC) No. 2983/74, the legislative institutions
of the Community were giving effect to an invitation of the Court of Justice.
In several judgements the Court had refused to draw from the principle of limitation recognised in the legal system of every Member State a concrete solution of the problem for Community law. Indeed, the Court had emphasised that for a period of limitation to fulfil its function of ensuring legal certainty it must be specified in advance and that its extent and conditions of application belonged to the Ccmmur.ity's legislators2.
The legal position under the ECSC Treaty is comparable to that existing under the EEC Treaty before the entry intc force of Regulation (EEC) No. 2988/74. Many of the Articles of the ECSC Treaty (Art. 47, 54, 58, 59, 6° to 54, 65, 66, 68, 95(l) and (2))ccnfer on the Commission the power of
imposing pecuniary sanctions (fines and periodic penalties) for infringements
2 Judgement of 15 July 1970 in canes No. 41, 44 and 45/29, Chemiefarma, Bucliler and Boehringer v. Commission, Rec. 1970-6, pp. 66l, 605/61 733, 752/53; 769, 789. Judgementn of 14 July 1972 in cases No, 48, 4? and 51-57/69, ICI, BASF, BAYER, GEIGY, SANDOZ, FRANCOLOR, CASSELLA, KOECHST and ACNA v. Commission, Rec. 1972-5, P« 619, 655; 713, 732-33: 745, 774; 787, 828; 845, 849; 851, 874, 887; 915; 927, 930; 933, 950/51.
of the Articles themselves or of provisions made under them. However, the Treaty does not provide for any limitation on proceedings or enforcement of sanctions. Decision No. 5/^5^, 1? March 19^5, concerning the period of
limitation for debts resulting from the levies created "by Articles 49 and 50 of the Treaty, the only relevant rule in the ECSC, relates to fiscal law and could not , therefore , be applied to sanctions .
Consequently, the EC3C Treaty also contains a lacuna which ought to be filled by the Community^ legislators. The reasoning of the Court of Justice mentioned previously in this respect apply here too.
Following the deliberations which took place on Regulation (EEC) No. 2930/74 in the Economic and Social Committee, the European Parliament and
the Council, the problem of a possible rule covering limitation of fines
and periodic penalty payments under ECSC law was raised on several occasions. Because of the differences which exist between the rule making; procedures of the EEC and the ECSC, the Commission's representatives have not accepted the suggestion that the application of limitation periods in proceedings and
the enforcement of sanctions for the whole of Community law should be contained in one Regulation covering the scope of the three Treaties. However, they have stated that, at the right time, the Commission would
make a binding Decision within the meaning of Articles 14 and 15 of the
ECSC Treaty, ii'hich would draw on the solutions adopted for EEC lav;. In
the Fourth Report on Competition Policy (no. 50) "tke Commission confirmed
its intention, emphasizing that Regulation (SEC) No. 2988/74 planned so as
to serve as a model .
"• The present Decision contemplates the complete regulation by the Commission of prescription periods for .proceedings and enforcement of sanctions in the ECSC. It is for this reason that the draft Decision takes
in every Article of the Treaty which confers on the Commission the power
to impose fines and periodic penalty payments. These rules would also
apply to general decisions already made under these Articles or which may
be made in future, to the extent that they provide for similar powers. Such is currently the position in the case of Decisions Ko. 14/64^ and No. 73/ 287/ECSC5.
The present Decision relates in part to the power to impose fines
(see Art. 1 to 3 of the draft) and in part to the power to enforce individual
decisions imposing fines and periodic penalty payments, which crane under the heading of enforcement by virtue of Article 92 of the Treaty (see Art. 4
to 6 of the draft). It fixes the periods of limitation, the moment when these periods begin to run as well as the acts which have the effect of interrupting or suspending those periods. In order to establish uniform rules of limitation for the whole of Comarunity law, this Decision has been largely modelled as regards form and content on the text of Regulation
(EEC) No. 2988/74 (annexed), to which the Commission may refer.
4 Decision No. 14/64 of the High Authority of 8 July 19&4 concerning
commercial documents and accounts to be submitted by undertakings to officials or authorised persons entrusted by the High. Authority with investigations or inspection of prices (OJ No. 120, 28 July 1964, p. 1957).
5 Decision No. 73/287/ECSC of the Commission, 25 July 1973, concerning coal and coke for the iron and steel industry in the Community
Two alternative legal bases exist for "this Decision.
The Commission's power to impose fines and periodic penalties derives essentially from Articles 47f 54, 58, 59, 60 to 64, 65, 66, 68 and 95(1)
and (2) of the Treaty. The majority of these Articles authorise the Commission to make implementing rules. It would, therefore, seem justified to accept that the Treaty has conferred upon the Commission a clear power
to mate rules even for fixing and enforcing the pecuniary penalties provided for by the said Articles. This power would also include the right to introduce rules governing limitation.
However, a contrary argument just as valid ought to be mentioned. The Treaty refers nowhere to the question of limitation. This fact leads to the conclusion that there is here a veritable lacuna in the law, which
the Conia3unity,s legislators should fill following the procedures of Articles 95(l) and- (2).
In the present case both alternatives have the same result. - Given that a Decision cn limitation must apply to pecuniary penalties fixed under rules made by virtue of Article 95(l) (2), the procedure defined in that Article must in any event be respected, even if the first solution
is adopted.
These circumstances would appear to indicate that the whole of the Decision should be based on Article 95(1) and (2), and that the annexed draft should be submitted to the Consultative Committee for its opinion " ••• ■ as well as tc the Council for its unanimous assent.
COMMISSION" DECISION No of
concerning limitation periods in proceedings and the enforcement of sanctions under the Treaty establishing
the European Coal and Steel Community
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, and in particular Articles 2 to 5 and 95(l) and (2) thereof;
Having regard to the Opinion of the Consultative Committee; Having regard to the unanimous assent of the Council ;
Whereas under Articles 47, 54, 58, 59, 60 to. 64, 66, 68 and 95(1) and (2) of the
Treaty as well as under provisions made in applying such Articles - namely
Decisions No. 14/64 and No. 73/287/ECSC - the Coniniission has the power
to impose fines and periodic penalty payments on undertakings or natural or legal persons who infringe obligations incumbent upon them by virtue of the above-mentioned provisions; whereas those rules make no provision for any limitation period* ;
1 Decision No. 14/64 of the High Authority of 8 July 1964 concerning commercial documents and accounts to be submitted by undertakings to officials or authorised persons entrusted by the High Authority with investigations or inspection of prices (O.J. No. 120, 28 July 1964.- P. 1967).
2 Decision No. 73/287/ECSC of the Commission, 25 J^ly 1973, concerning coal and coke for the iron and steel industry in tho Community
Whereas, pursuant to Article 5, in order to realise the aims of the Community as defined in Articles 2,3 and 4 of the Treaty and in the interests of legal certainty it is necessary that the principle of limitation be introduced
and that implementing rules "be laid down; whereas, for the matter to he covered fully, it is necessary that provision for limitation be made not
only as regards the power to impose fines but also as regards the power to enforce decisions, imposing fines or periodic penalty payments; whereas such provisions should specify the length of limitation periods, the date on which . time starts to run and the events which have the effect of interrupting or suspending the limitation period; whereas in this respect the interests of
the parties on the one hand, and the requirements imposed by administrative practice, on the other hand, should be taken into account;
Whereas this Decision must apply to all the relevant provisions of the above- mentioned Articles of the Treaty and of provisions made pursuant to the said Articles; whereas it must also apply to the relevant provisions of, future implementing rules, .
Limitation periods in proceedings
1. The power of the Commission to impose fines for infringements of Articles 47, 54, 58/ 59, 60 to 64, 65, 65, So or 95(l) and (2) of the Treaty or in provisions applying these Articles shall be subject to the following limitation periods:
(a) threeyearsinthecaseofinfringementsofprovisionsconcerning requests for information, or statements of the parties in the course of investigations;
(b) fiveyearsinthecaseofallotherinfringements. ;
2= Time shall begin to run upon the day on vrhich the infringement is • committed. However,inthecaseofcontinuingorrepeatedinfringements, time shall begin to run on the day on which the infringement ceases.
Interruption of the limitation period in proceedings
1. Any action taken by the Commission for the purpose of the preliminary investigation or proceedings in respect of an infringement shall interrupt the limitation period in proceedings. The limitation period shall "be inter­ rupted with effect from the date on which the action is notified to at least one party which has participated in the infringement.
Actions which interrupt the running Of the period shall include in particular the following:
(a) written requests for information by the Commission or Commission decisions requiring the requested information;
(b) written authorizations to carry out investigations issued to their officials by the Commission or a Commission decision ordering an investigation ;
( c ) the commencement of proceedings by the Commission ;
(d) despatch by the Commission of a letter giving an interested party the opportunity to submit its comments, pursuant to Article 3^ of the Treaty.
2. The interruption of the limitation period shall apply for all the undertakings which have participated in the infringement.
3. Each interruption shall start tine running afresh. However, the
limitation period shall expire at the latest on the day on which a period • * equal to twice the limitation period has elapsed without the Commission
• ; ! having imposed a fine or a penalty; that period shall be extended by the time during which limitation is suspended pursuant to Article }>.
Suspgnsion of the li.^:.ta.tion period in proceedings
The limitation period in proceedings shall be suspended for as long as the decision of the Commission is the subject of proceedings pending before the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
Limitation period for the enforcement of sanction's
1. The power of the Commission to enforce decisions imposing fines or
periodic payments for infringements of Articles 47, 54, 58, 59, 60 to 64, 65, 66, 68 or 95(-) and (2) of the Treaty or of orders made applying these Articles
shall be subject to a limitation period of five years.
2. Time shall begin to run on the day on which the decision becomes final.
Interruption of the limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions
1. The limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions shall be inter­ rupted :
(a) by notification of a decision varying the original amount of the fine or periodic penalty payments or refusing an application for variation;
(b) by any action of the Commission, or of a Member State at the request of the Commission, for the purpose of enforcing payments of a fine or periodic penalty payment.
2. Each interruption shall start time running afresh.
Suspension of the limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions
The limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions shall be suspended for so long as:
(a ) time to pay is allowed ; or
(b) enforcement of payment is suspended pursuant to a decision of the Court of Jvistice of the European Communities.
Application to transitional cases
This Decision shall also apply in respect of infringements coramitted before it enters into force .
Article 8 Entry into fcrce
This Decision shall enter into force on 1977.
REGULATION (EEC) No 2933/74 OP THE COUNCIL of 26 November 1974
concerning Imitation periods in proceedings and the enforcement
of sections under the rules of the European Economic Community relating to transport and competition^"
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 75, 79 and 87 thereof;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament ; 2
Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;^
Whereas under the rules of the European Economic Community relating to trans­ port and competition the Commission has the power to impose fines, penalties and periodic penalty payments on undertakings or associations of undertakings which infringe Community law relating to information or investigation, or to the prohibition on discrimination, restrictive practices and abuse of dominant position; whereas those rules make no provision for any limitation period;
Whereas it is necessary in the interests of legal certainty that the principle of limitation be introduced and that implementing rules be laid down; whereas, for the matter to be covered fully, it is necessary that provision for limi­ tation be made not only as regards the power to impose fines or . penalties,
but also as regards the power to enforce decisions, imposing fines, penalties or periodic penalty payments; whereas such provisions should specify the length of limitation periods, the date on which time starts to run and the events which have the effect of interrupting or suspending the , limitation period; whereas in this respect the interests of undertakings and associ­ ations of undertakings on the one hand, and the requirements imposed by administrative practice , on the other hand, should be taken into account ;
1 OJ L 319 of 29.11.1974, P» 1. 2 OJ C 129 of 11.12.1972, p. 10. 3 OJ C 89 of 23.3.1972, p. 21.
Whereas this Regulation must apply to the relevant provisions of Regulation. No 11 concerning the abolition of discrimination in transport rates and conditions , in implementation of Article 79(3 ) of the Tresty^" establishing
the European Economic Community, of Regulation No 172 : first Regulation implementing Articles o5 and 86 of the Treaty, and of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1017/68^ of 19 July 1Q58 applying rules of competition to transport
by rail, road and inland waterway; whereas it must also apply to the relevant provisions of future regulations in the fields of European Economic Community law relating to transport and competition.
Limitation periods in proceedings
1. The power of the Commission to impose fines or penalties for infringe­ ments of the rules of the European Economic Community relating to transport or competition shall be subject to the following limitation periods:
(a) three years in the case of infringements of provisions concerning applications or notifications of undertakings or associations of
undertakings, requests for information, or the carrying out of investigations :
(b) five years in the case of all other infringements-
2. Time shall begin to run upon the day on which the infringement is committed. However, in the case of continuing or repeated infringements, time shall begin to run on the day on which the infringement ceases.
1 0J 52 of 16.8.1960, p. 1122/50. 2 OJ 13 of 21.2.1962, p. 204/62. 3 OJL 175 of 23.7.1968, p. 1.
Interruption of the limitation period in proceedings
1. Any action taken by the Commission, or "by any Member State, acting on the request of the Commission, for the purpose of the preliminary investi­ gation or proceedings in respect of an infringement shall interrupt the limitation period in proceedings. The limitation period shall be interruped with effect from the date on which the action is notified to at least one undertaking or association of undertakings which have participated in the infringement .
Actions which interrupt the running of the period shall include in particular the following:
(a) written requests for information by the Commission, or by the competent authority of a Member State acting at the request of , the Commission; or a 'Commission decision requiring the requested information ;
(b) written authorizations to carry out investigations issued to their officials by the Commission or by the competent authority of any Member State at the request of the Commission; pr a Commission decision ordering an investigation;
( c ) the commncement of proceedings by the Commission ;
(d) notification of the Commission*s statement of objections.
2. The interruption of the limitation period shall apply for all the undertakings or associations of undertakings which have participated in the
3„ Each interruption shall start time running afresh. However, the limitation period shall expire at the latest on the day on which a period equal to twice the limitation period has elapsed without the Commission having imposed a fine or a penalty; that period shall be extended by the time during which limitation is suspended pursuant to Article 3«
Suspension of the limitation period in proceedings
The limitation period in proceedings shall be suspended for as long as the decision of the Commission is the subject of proceedings pending "before the Court of Justice of the European Communities!,
' Limitation period for- the enforcement of sanctions
1. The power of the Commission to enforce decisions imposing fines, penalties or periodic payments for infringements of the rules of the European Economic Community relating to transport or competition shall be subject to a limitation period of five years.
2. Time shall begin to run on the day on which the decision becomes final.
Interruption of the limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions
1. The limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions shall be interrupedd :
(a) by notification of a decision varying the original amount of the fine, penalty or periodio penalty payments or refusing an application for variation }
(b) by any action of the Commission, or of a Member State at the request of the Commission, for the purpose of enforcing payments of a fine, penalty or periodic penalty payment.
2. Each interruption shall start time running afresh.
Suspension of the limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions
The limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions shall be suspended for so long as:
(a) time to pay is allowed; or
(b) enforcement of payments is suspended pursuant to a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Communities.
Application to transitional cases
Tliis Regulation shall also apply in respect of infringements committed before it enters into force .
Article 0 Entry into force
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1975*
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
of the European Communities
The President
I enclose a draft Decision of the Commission concerning limitation periods in proceedings and the enforcement of sanctions under the Treaty establishing the Furopean Coal and Steel Community.
Pursuant to Article 95 (l) (2) of the Treaty, this Decision may be taken after the Consultative Committee has been consulted and with the unanimous assent of the Council.
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my high consideration.
President of the Consultative Committee of the European Coal and Steel Coamunity
or the European Communities
The President
I enclose a draft Decision of the Commission concerning limitation periods in proceedings and the enforcement of sanctions under the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community.
Pursuant to Article 95 (l) an<l (2) of the Treaty, this Decision may be taken after the Consultative Committee has been consulted and with the unanimous assent of the Council.
Please accept , Sir , the assurance
President ot the Council
of tLs European Communities
of my
IV/ 389/ 76-E annex 3
6f thé' European Communities
The President
I wish to inform you that the Commission has adopted the enclosed draft Decision concerning limitation periods in proceedings and the enforcement of sanctions under the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community.
By this means the Commission is meeting the desire of the European Parliament which, when discussing the Regulation (EEC) No 2988/74 concerning limitation periods in proceedings and the enforcement, of sanctions under the rules of the European Economic Community relating to transport and competition, has repeatedly spoken in favour of corresponding provisions for the European Coal and Steel Community .
Pursuant to Article 95 (1) and (2) of the Treaty, this Decision may be taken after the Consultative Committee has been consulted and with the unanimous assent cf the Council .
Please accept , Sir , the assurance of my highest consideration .
President of the European Parliament
limitation periods in proceedings and enforcement of sanctions under the Treaty establishing the European
Coal and Steel Community
COM(76)688 final. Brussels, 3 January 1977*
sanctions under the Treatv establishing, tfca Eurcpea,:?. Ceel and Steel Community
Judgement of 15 July 1970 in cases No. 41, 44 and 45/69,
Reasona for the Décision I
Cn 26 November 1974 the Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission, male Regulation (EEC) 2988/74 concerning limitation periods in
proceedings and in the enforcement of sanctions under the rules of the European Economic Community on transport and competition . The Regulation oarae into force on 1 January 1975 and covered a gap in Community law. The Commission*s power to impose pecuniary sanctions upon enterprises and
associations of enterprises under the EEC Treaty, which has real importance in administrative practice, had never previously "been eubjeot to the
principle of limitation.. . , /
In making Regulation (EEC) No. 2983/M, the legislative institutions
of the Community were giving effect to an invitation of the Court of Justice.
In several judgements the Court had refused to draw from the principle of limitation recognised in the legal system of every Member State a ooncrete solution of the problem for Community law. Indeed, the Court had emphasised that for a period of limitation to fulfil its function of ensuring legal certainty it must be specified in advance and that its extent and conditions
of application belonged to the Community's legislators .
The legal position under the ECSC Treaty is comparable to that existing under the EEC Treaty before the entry into force of Regulation (EEC) NO. 2988/74. Many of the Articles of the ECSC Treaty (Art. 47, 54, 58, 59* 60
to 64, 65, 66, 68, 95(1) and (2))confer on the Commission the power of imposing pecuniary sanctions (fines and periodic penalties) for infringements
752/5V 769 789. Judgements of 14 July 1972 in cases No. 4o, 49
51-57/69, ICI, BASF, BAYER, GEIGY, SANDOZ, FRANCOLOR, CASSELLA, and ACNA v. Commission, Reo. 1972-5, P* 619, £55i 713, *^2~33j 787, 828; 845, 849; 851, 874, 887i 915i 927, 930; 933» 950/51.
 of the Articles themselves or of provisions made wider them. However, the
Treat,/ does net provide for any limitation on proceedings or enforcement of ^•-3 .
Scoot:oris. Decision No, >/65 , 17 March lS'-5» concerning the period of limitation for debts resulting from the levies 'created by Articles 49 and
SO of the .Treaty, the only relevant rule in the ECSC, relates to fiscal law and could not , therefore , be applied to sanctions .
Consequently, the iiiOSC Treaty also contains a lacuna which ought to be filled by the Community*s legislators. The reasoning of the Court of Justice mentioned previously in this respect apply here too.
Following the deliberations which took place on Regulation (EEC) STo. 293<j/74 'the Economic and Social Committee, the European Parliament and t.-.i~ Council, the problem of a possible rule• covering limitation of fines
and periodic penalty payments under ECSC law was raised on several occasions. Because of the differences which exist between the rale making procedures of the ESC arid the ECSC, the Coamission'e representatives have not accepted the suggestion that the application of limitation periods in proceedings and
the enforcement of sanctions for the whole of Community law should be contained in one Regulation covering' the scope of the three Treaties,
However, they have stated that, at the ri^it time, the Commission would make a binding Decision within the meaning of Articles 14 and 15 of the ECSC Treaty, which would draw on the solutions adopted for ESC law. " In * the Fourth Report on Competition Policy (no, 50). tha Cosiaiasion 'oattfirme&"
its intention, emphasising ' that Regulation (EEC?) No* 2988/74 plgeraad so as to serve as a model®
The present Decision contemplates the complete regulation by the Commission of prescription periods for proceedings and enforcement of sanctions in the ECSC. It is for this reason that the draft Decisi?n takes
in every Article of the Treaty which confers on the Commission "the power
to impose fines and periodic penalty payments. . These rules would also
apply to general decisions already made under these Articles or which may
be made in future, to the extent that they provide for similar powers. Such is currently the position in the case of Decisions No. 14/64^ and Wo. 73/ 287/ECSC5.
The present Decision relates in part to the power to impose fines
(see Art. 1 to 3 of the draft) and in part to the power to enforce individual
decisions imposing fines and periodic penalty payments, which come ui.ier the heading of enforcement by virtue of Article 92 of the Treaty (see Art. 4
to 6 of the draft). It fixes the periods of limitation, the moment when these periods begin to run as well as the aots which h&ve the effect of
interrupting or suspending those periods. In order to establish uniform rules of limitation for the whole of Community law, this Decision has been largely modelled as regards form and content on the text of Regulation
(EEC) Ho. 2988/74. (annexed), to whioh the Commission may refer.
4 Decision No. 14/64 of the High Authority of 0 July 19^4 concerning commercial documents and accounts to be submitted by undertakings
to officials or authorised persons entrusted by the High Authority vi th inventigations or inspection of prices (OJ No. 120, 28 July 1964, p. 19^7).
5 Decision No. 73/287/ECSC of the Commission, 25 July 1973, concerning coal and coke for the iron and steel industry in the Community
Two sjter-aatxve l©£al bases exist for this Decision.
The Commission's power- to impose fines and. periodio penalties derives
et^een"iially from Articles 47* 54, 53, 59, oO to 64, 65, 66, 63 and 95(1) and. (2) of the Treaty, The majority of these Articles authorise the
Cc '.'mission to make implementing rules . It would, therefore , seem justified to accept that the Treaty has conferred upon the Commission & clear power
to make rules even for fixLng and enforcing the pecuniary penalties provided for by the said Articles. This power would also include the right to introduce rules governing limitation.
However, a contrary argument just as valid ought to be mentioned. The Treaty refers nowhere to the question of limitation. This fact leads to the conclusion that there is here a veritable lacuna in the law, which
the Corr.Tiunity*8 legislators should fill following the procedures of Articles <?5(l) and (2),
In the present case "both alternatives have the same result. Given that a Decision cn limitation must apply to pecuniary penalties fixed under rules made by virtue of Article 95(1) and (2), the procedure defined in that Article must In any event be respected, even if the first solution
is adopted.
These circumstances would appear to indicate that the whole of the Decision should be based on Article 95(i) and (2), and that the annexed rtiaft should be submitted to the Consultative Committee for its opinion as well as to the Council for its unanimous assent*-
concerning limitation periods in proceedings and the enforcement of sanctions under the Treaty establishing
the European Coal and Steel Community
Having regard to "the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, andinparticularArticles2to5and95(1)and(2)thereof;
Having regard to the Opinion of the Consultative Committee;
Having regard to the unanimous aBsent of the Council;
Whereas under Articles 47» 54» 58, 59» 60 to 64, 66f 68 and 95(1) and (2) of the Treaty as well as under provisions made in applying such Articles - namely Decisions No. 14/641 and No. 73/287Acs°2 ~ the Commission has the po:^er.
to impose fines and periodio penalty payments on undertakings or natural
or legal persons who infringe obligations incumbent upon them by virtue of
the above-mentioned provisions; whereas those rules make no proviaion for è'
1 DecisionNo.14/64oftheHighAuthorityof8July19^4concerning commercial documents and accounts to be submitted by undertakings
to officials or authorised persons entrusted by the High Authority with investigations or inspection of prices (O.J. No. 120, 28 July 1964, p. 1967).
2 Decision No. 73/287/ECSC of the Commission, 25 July 1973, ecmoerning ooal and coke for the iron and steel industry in the Community
oonosrning iisiSiatism periods la prcoeedings Mid "the ■•jnforeeisant «sf eamotions isafisr the Treaty estefelisteiHg
^aviflg regard to the Treaty astablishing the European Co&l aad St-aal Community, and in particular Articles 2 to 5 and 95(1) and (2) tfcereof,
Having' regard to the Opinion of tfea Consultative Committee, Having regard to the imar.iBons assent of the Council,
Whereas under Articles 47v 54, 58, 59, 60 to 64, 66, 68 and. 93(1) aiid (2) of the Treaty and unrfsr provisions made under these Articles – rsamsly
High Authority Decision 14/64 of 8 July 19&4 on business hooks and account­ ing documents vhioh undertakings must pr-oduoe for inspection "by officials or the High Authority carrying out checks or verifications as regards prioes and Cotek!lesion Decision 73/28T/fe'SC, 25 -July 1973? concerning coal and coke for the iron and steel industry in the Qommnitj – the Cosffiiseion has the power to impose fines and periodic penalty pay®wis on ont\ertal~1age or natural or legal person® who infring© obligations Incumbent upon ihera by virtue of the above–«Gntioned profitsions| idiereas those aeaafcrfe* so not provide for any limitation periodj
Whereas, in order to realise, pursuant to Article 5, "the aims of the Community
as defined in Articles 2,3 and 4 of the Treaty and in the interests of legal c*rtr>inty it is necessary that the principle of limitation be introduced
an? chat implementing rules "be laid down; whereas, for the matter to be
covered fully, it is necessary that provision for limitation be made not
only as regards the power to impose fines but also as regards the power to enforce decisions, imposing fines or periodic penalty payments; whereas such provisions should specify the length of limitation periods, the date on which ' time starts to run and the events which have the effect of interrupting or
suspending the limitation period; whereas in this respect the interests of the parties on the one hand, and the requirements imposed by &ximinietrative practice, on the other hand, should be taken into account;
Whereas this Decision must apply to all the relevant provisions laid down in the above mentioned Articles of the Treaty and in implementing measures taken
hereunder; whereas it must also apply to th® relevant provisions of future implementing measures.
1. The power of the Commission to impose fines for infringements of Articles 47, 54, 58, 59, 60 to 64, 65, 65, 68 or 95(1) and. (2) of the Treaty'or* in provisions applyin., these Articles bhall be subjeot to the following limitation periods:
(a) threeyearsinthecaseofinfringementsofprovisionsconcerning requests for information, or statements of the parties in the course of investigations;
(b) fiveyearsinthecaseofallotherinfringements.'
2. Time shall begin to run upon the day on which the infringement is . committed. However,inthecaseofcontinuingorrepeatedinfringements, time shall begin to run on the day on which the infringement oeaees.
Interruption of, the limitation period in •cr^ceedirr:;?
1. Any action -taken "by the Commission for the purpose of the preliminary investigation or proceedings in respect of an infringement shall interrupt the limitation period in proceedings. The limitation period ahall be inter­ rupted with effect fro®, the date on which the action is notified to at least one party which has participated in the infringement.
Act.1of;a which Interrupt the running of the period shall include in particular thefollowing? •- "
(a) writtenrequestsforinformationbytheCommissionorCommissiondecisions requiring the requested information?
(b) writtenauthorisationstocarryoutinvestigationsissuedtotheir officials by the Commission or a Commission decision ordering an investigation;
(c) thecommencementofproceedingsbytheCommission;
(d) despatchbytheCommissionofalettergivinganinterestedpartythe opportunity to submit its comments, pursuant to Article 3« of the Treaty.
2. The Interruption of the limitation period, shall apply for all parties which have participated in the' infringement®
3. Each interruption shall start time running afresh. However, the
limitation period shall expire at the latest on the day on which a period equal to twice the limitation period has elapsed without the ConEStssion : having imposed a fine or a penalty; that period shall be extended by the time during which limitation, is suspended pursuant to Article 3.
Suspension of the limitation period j.n proceedings
The limitation period in proceedings shall be suspended for as long as the docioion of the Commission is the subject of proceedings pending before the Court of Justice of the European Coramunities*
Limitation period for the enforcement of sanction's
1. T^e power of the Commission to enforce decisions imposing fines or periodic payments for infringementa of Articles 47» 54» 58» 59» 60 *0 64» 65, 66, CO or 95(l) and (2) Of the Treaty or of implementing provisions made under these
Articles shell be subject to a limitation period of five years.
2. Time sh?.ll begin to run on the day on which the decision becomes final.
Interruption of the limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions
1. The limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions shall be inter­ rupted :
(a) bynotificationofadecisionvaryingtheoriginalaaountofthefine or periodic penalty payments or refusing an application for variation;
(b) by any action of the Commission, or of a Member State at the request of the Commission, for the purpose of enforcing payments of a fine or periodic penalty payment.
2. Each interruption shall start time running afresh.
Suepension of the limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions
Vha limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions shall be suspended for 60 long as:
(a) time to pay is allowed; or
(b) enforcementofpaymentissuspendedpursuanttoadecisionofthe Court of Justice of the European Communities.
Application to transitional cases
This Decision shall also apply in respect of infringements committed "before
Entry into force
This Decision shall enter into force on ........... ....... 1977-
Brussels, 26 January 1977«
(Cancels and replaces doc. COM(76)688 final)
concerning limitation periods in proceedings and enforcement of sanctions under the Treaty establishing the European Coal
and Steel Community
li.rii tatirn in rapoceeflin^s -I'.vnl enforcement of.' sanctions vuKicr the; Treaty ostnblighItm;. "tfca Europe-,:;
Cn 26 November 1974 the Council, acting on a propcsal frcm tha Cotrrr.ianion, made Regulation (HEC) 2933/74 concerning limitation periods in
proceedings and in the enforcement of sanctions under the rn3.es of the Buropc&n Economic Community on transport and competition^. The Regulation
oruno into fcroo on 1 January 1975 arid covered a gap in Community law. The Commissions power to impose pecuniary sanctions upon enterprises and association* of enterprises tinder the EEC Treaty, which has real importance in administrative praotice, had never previously been subject to tha principle of limitation.." - ■ •
In making Regulation (i'23c) No. 2983/74, the legislative institutions
of the Comminity were (jiving effect to an invitation of the Court of Justice.
Tn several judgements the Court had refused to draw from the prinoiple of limitation recognised in the legal system of every Member Stato a ooncrete
soluhion of the problem for Community lav;. Indeed, tho Court had emphasised that for a period of limitation to fulfil its function of ensuring legal certainty it must be specified in advance and that its extent and conditions of application belonged to the Coumsiuiity*s legislatorsJ*
The legal position under the ECSC Treaty is comparable to that exiatinj und»r the EEC Treaty before the entry into force of Regulation (Elic) No. 2980/74. K?ny of the Articles of the ECSC Treaty (Art. 47, 54, 5^f 59f 60 to 64, 65, 66, 68, 95(l) and (2))confer on the Commission the powssr of
imposing pecuniary sanctions (finec and periodio penalties) for infringements
2 Judgement of 15 July 1970 in cases No. 41, 44 cn^ 41;/69, Cheaiofarma, Touchier and Boehringer v. Commission, Rec. 1970-6, pp. 661, 685/0; 733, 7^2/53; 769, 7C9. Judgements of 14 July 1972 in cases No. 43, 49 cr.d 51-07/69, ICI, BASF, BAYER, OEIGT, 5AND0Z, ERANCOLQR, CASSiLLA, HOECHST arid ACM v. Commission, Roo. 1972-5, p. 6.10, 6'55; 713, 732-33; 745, 774;
of the Articles thsnnjoives os- of provisions mads under them. Kcwovei*, tho Trevr.y does not provide for* ary Hesitation en proceedin.;:n or e;xforoeir.er;t of RanctJ o"is. Decision No. 5/°5~'» ' 17 I^aroh 19^5,' concerning tho period of
1 i. jitni, ion for debts resulting from the levies? created Articles A$ and r!') of tho .Treaty, the only relevant rule in the SC3C, relates to fiocal Is-1-1 and could not , therefore , bo applied to sanctions .
Consequently, the EC3C Treaty also contains a lacuna which ought to bo filled by the Community's legiolators. The reasoning of the Court of Justice mentioned previously in this respeot apply hero too.
Following the deliberations Which took place on Regulation (ESQ) 17o. 29%0/7A in the Economic and Social Committee, the European Parliament a. jd
ths Council, the problem of a possible rulo covering limitation of fines
and periodic penalty payment8 under EC3C law wao rained on esveral occasions. Because of the differences which exist between the rule raaking procedures of the EZC and the ECSO, the Commission' s representatives have not accepted the * KUggention that the application of limitation periods in proceedings and
the enforcement of sanctions for the whole of Community law ohould b& contained in one Regulation covering' the coopo of the three Treaties.
However, they have stated that, at the right t£raet the Cornsiesiou would
mnJce a binding Decision within the meaning of Articles 14 «i"d 15 of "the
BCSC Treaty, which would draw on tho oolutiono adoptod for EEC law. "To
the Fourth Report on Competition Policy (no, 50). the Co&zd&eicii ocxlfir&oa"
its intention, emphasising that Regulation (EEC) 2fo« 2$SQ/74 'plsaasd as as to serve ao a model .
T.o present Decision contemplates the complete regulation by the Coruniesion of prescription periods for proceedings arid enforoeaent of sanctions in the ECSC. It is for this reason that the draft Decision takes
in every Article of the Treaty which confers on the Commission "the power 1 to in.poee finc3 and periodic penalty payments. . These rules would also
apply to general decisions already made under these Articles or which taay
"bo iiiada in future, to tho extent that they provide for oimilar powers. Such
io currently the position in the case of Decisions No. 14/64^ an<i 73/ 287AX3H5.
The present Decision relates in part to the pOwer to impose fines
(cne Art. 1 to 3 OF the draft) and In part to the power to enforce individual
. decisions imposing fines and periodic penalty payments, which come ui.ier +he heading of enforcement by virtue of Article 92 of the Treacy (see Art. 4
to 6 of the draft). It fixes the periods of limitation, the moment when these periods begin to run &s well as the aots which h&vs the effeot of interrupting or suspending those periods. In order to establish' uniform rules of limitation for the whole of Community law, this Deoision has bean largely modelled as regards form and content on the text of Regulation
(EEC) NO. 2988/74. (annexed), to whioh' the Commission may refer.
4 Decision No. 14/^4 of the High Authority of 0 July 19&4 concerning oorrmerciai documents and acooimts to be submitted by undertakings to officials or authorised persons entrusted by the High Authori ty vith inveotigations or inspection of prioes (OJ 1*0. 120, HQ July 19^4, p. 19^7)•
5 Decision No. 73/287/ECSC of the Commission, 25 July 1973,' oonoerning co.OL and coke for the iron and steal industry in the Community
Two alternative Isgal bases exist for this Decision.
iho CoTsmi.ooion'f> power to lr.;poao fineu and periodic penal tiss deriv~i-. essentially from Articles 47. 54, 5<->, 53, oO t.? 64, 6'j# 66, hC> or*! 95U ) --"rt(2)oftheTreaty, ThomajorityoftheseArticlesauthorisathe Cr-miisaion to make implementing rules. It would, therefore, aeons ju:/-'.'.flei to accept that the Treaty has com erred upon tha Goranriesion a clear power tc make rules even for fixing nnd enforcing the pecuniary penalties prov xued for hy the said Articles. This power would, also include the ritfit \o int^o-ince rules governing limitation.
However, a contrary argument just as valid to he mentioned. Tho Treaty refers nowhere to the qua~:tion of limitation. This fa-r; leads to i'ie conclusion that there is here a veritable lamina in the law, vhich
the Coaniunity*s legislators ehould fill following the procedures of Articles 95(l) and (2),
In the present case both alternatives! have the sane result. Given that a Decision ca limitation must apply to pecuniary penaltioo fixed una'-7 rulesmadebyvirtuacfArticle95(1)^d. \2),thoprocf.-duroJcfinedin that Article roust in any event be respected, even if the fijvt uolution
is adopted.
These circumstances would appear to indicate that tho vhola of the Decision should be based, on Article 95(1) and (2)? and that the ejrme:-.x& Hi aft ehtuld be submitted to the Consultative Comroitteo for its c>pi;>i.o» • – as well as to the Ccunoil for Its unanimous e.s^or.6, '
ccmoorning limitation periods In proceedings and iiio enforcement of nanctiono undor tb© Treaty .catabllsking
i,hs European Coal and Steal CoKsmnnity
Kf.-rir?; xagard to the Treaty ©stabliahing the European Co&l and Svoa'l Community, and is* particular Articles 2 to 5 &r;I 95(0 (2) thoreoft
Having regard "to the Opinion of the Consultative Committee, Having regard to the unaniraouu assent of the Council,
Whereas xinder Articlea 47» 54» 53» 59* ^0 to 64» 66, 63 and 95V±) (2)
of the Treaty and under provisions mafia under these Articles – nruuGly
High Authority Deoiaion 14/64 of 8 July 1?64 on "busirsenB "bocks and account­ ing doomaents which undertakings mast produce for inspection by cfficialo
or the High Authority carrying out checks or verifications so regards prioue and Conniiasion Beoision 73/287/eCSC, 25 Julv 1973T concernivi ce,ai ani coke for the iron and steel industry in the Ccraamnily2 – the Copies ), ri i»aa "id© power to impose fir.es and periodic penalty psynseato 011 und«rt«ikii>£a or natural or legal parnana who irifrlng® obligation.® iraGTunboxvi upca "ths-a "by virtue of the above-mentioned px'CTiaionej trhsreaa tboo© sisasuroa £0 not provide for any limitation periodj
Whcrea3, in order to realise, pursuant to Article 5» "the ainio of the Comirur.ity as d..'fined in Articles 2,3 and 4 of the Treaty and in tho interests of le/;al cn't-nnt;/ it is necessary that the principle of limitation he introduced
av' i.h'rl. '.mpl ementing ruleo be laid down; whereat, for tho matter to he f;vcr©d fully, it is necessary that provision for limitation he m^de not
otily as regards the power to impose fines hut also p.s regards the power to enforce decisions , imposing fines or periodio penalty payaento ; whereas euch
pj'o\riE.i.ons Bhould specify "the longth of limitation pei'iodn, the date on which time starts to run and the events? which have tho effect of interrupting or suspending the limitation period; whereas in this reapect the interests of the parties on the one hand, and the requirements imposed by administrative practice , on the other hand, should be taken into account ;
Uhcrcaa this Decision must apply to all the relevant provision's laid down in the above mentioned Articles of tho Treaty and ia inclementicg msasurea tsken hereunder; vhoreas it must rIho apply to th« relevant provisions of future implementing measures,
Limitation periods in proceedings
3 . Vhb power of the Commission to irposo fiiieo for infringementa of Artioles 5^5 59? 60 to 6/1, 65, 65, uG or. 95(1) aawl, (2) of the Treaty'or' in provisions applyin., these Articles tihall be subjeot to the following limitation periods:
throe years in the cane of iiii'rirv.ements of provisions concerning requests for information, or statements of the partieo in the cour&e of investigations;
five years in the cooo of all Other infringements ,. ' ' .»•
Time shall begin to run upon the day on which the infringement is
committed. However, in the case of continuing or repeated infringements, tim« shall begin to z*ua on the day on which tho infringement ceaeos.
Tnterruption of tho 1Imitation period In prooecdir'fla.
.1. . Any aotion taken by the Commiesion for ihs purpose of the prelimtr.Ar^ investigation oi\ proceedings in respect of en infringement shall interrupt *hc limitation period in proceedings. The limitation period ohall bo in+er- mptad with effect from the data on which the action is notified, to at least one party which has participated in tho infringement.
Aotiono vhioh interrupt the running of tho period small include in particular the following! '■
(a) writtenrequestsforinformationbythaCommissioncrCommissiondecioiona requiring the requested information;
(b) writtenauthorizationstocarryoutinvestigationsissuedtotheir officials by tho Commission or a Coawiiaoion decision ordering on investigation ;
(c) thecommencementofprooeedinga"bytheCommisKion;
(d) despatchbythoConuttiseionofalettergivingoninterestedpartythe opportunity to submit its comments, pursuant to Article 3& of the Treaty.
2. The interruption cf the limitation period shall apply for oil parties which have participated in the'infringement.
3« Each interruption shall start timo running afresh. Howovor, the limitation period shall expire at the latest on tho day on which a period equal to twice the limitation period has elapocd without the Consnieaion : havingimposedafineorapenalty; thatperiodshall"beextended'bythe time during which limitation1 is suspended pursuant to Artiole 3.
Suspension of the lirjitfttlon period in rroc^ftdingB
Tlie limitation period in proceedings . shall be suspended for as long ao tho docioion of the Commission ia tho subject of proceedings pending before the Court of Justice of the European CoMmunition.
Limitation pcvritxi for^the ercforccroent of c^nctiorre
1. T'e power of the Commission to enforce decisions imposing fines or
povi^.ic payments for infringementa of Articles 47, 54, 58, 59, 60 to 64, 65, 65, ■'<] 01 95(-W a,K^ (2) of tho Treaty or of implementing provision* made under these
j'xtiolis shall be subject to a limitation period of five yearn,
2. Tit.ie sh^ll begin to l-mn on the day on which the deoiaion beoomes final.
TnicirJ on of the limitat ion period for the enforceinent of BP-nct.:'. onb '
1. The limitation period for the enforcement of sanctions shall bo inter­ rupted :
(1) bv notification of a decision varying the original amount of the fine or periodic penalty payments or refusing an application for v&riation;
(b) by any action of the Commission, or of a Member State at the request of the CoiiraicBion, for tho purpose of enforcing payments of & fin© or periodic penalty payment.
Each interruption shall Btart time running afresh.
Suspension of the limitation period for tho enforcement ofi canctiong
limitation period for tho enforcement of sanctions shall be suspended <or 60 long as:
(•"0 time to pay is allowed; or
(h) enforcement of payment is suspended pursuant to a decision of tho Court of Justioe of the European Communities.
Arplicatioh to transitional cacns
Thio Decision shall aloo apply ill respeot of infringementa comnitted bafore
Article 0 ! 'Entry intô forge
TMa Deoiaion shall enter into foroe en
