The purpose of Commission Regulation (EEC) N° 3186/76 of 22 December 1976 was to put an end with effect from 15 January 1977 to abuses involving the sale at reduced prices on "board certain vessels of agricultural products for which export refunds had been granted, with a view to reintroducing them into the Community free of import charges in travellers*personal "baggage .
Some firms are continuing such practices "by substituting products from non-Knember countries for Community products. These firms deliver to the
vessels, with the same aim as that described above, products from non- member countries which come from free zones or bonded warehouses situated
in the Community. Such products are not subject to the import charges applicable in the Comaunity and are therefore- sold at prices lower than those ruling on the Community market.
The purpose of this draft Regulation is to put an end to this situation, which is extremely detrimental to Community products and to products properly imported from non-member countries.
Under the proposed solution, the products from non-member countries which are to be sold on board with a view to being reintroduced into the Community free of import charges must be placed in free circulation in the Community prior to being placed on board.
Since this Regulation is based on article 43 of the Treaty, the European Parliament must be consulted.
There are no financial repercussions on the Community budget.
on certain measures to prevent abuses resulting from the sale of agricultural products on "board ship
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 43 ans 235 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,
Whereas no refund is to "be grAnted on products sold or distributed on board ship which are liable to be subsequently reintroduced into the Community free of levies under Council Regulation (EEC) N° 1818/75 of 10 July 1975 on "the agricultural levies, compensatory amounts and other import charges applicable to agricultural products and to certain goods resulting from their processing, contained in travellers'personal baggage
Whereas experience has shown that competing products which are not in free circulation within the Community are sold or distributed on board certain vessels for the same purpose as that described above ; whereas this results in discri­
mination against the products in free circulation within the Community ; whereas such a situation should be rectified ,
1. Goods covered by the common agricultural policy or by the specific arrange­ ments applicable, under Article 235 of the Treaty, to certain goods resul­ ting from the processing of agricultural products delivered on board ship in the community for sale or distribution on board must, prior to delivery, be or be placed in one of the situations provided for in Article 9 (2) of the Treaty.
Goods delivered on board ship shall be considered as having "been delivered for sale or distribution on "board unless the exporter, at the request and to the satisfaction of the competent authorities, proves that the said
goods are to be unloaded in' a non-member country or delivered for the victualling of vessels oa international routes, including intra–Community- routes .
3. For the purposes of this Regulation, "victualling" means any goods intended solely for consumption on board ship by members of the crew or by passengers.
Where necessary, rules for the application of this Regulation shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26 of Regulation (EEC) n° 2727/75 °r, as the case may be, in the corresponding Articles of the other Regulations on the common organization of agricultural markets.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 April 1977*
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Commission
COM(77)27 final Brussels, 15 February 1977
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
on certain measures to prevent abuses resulting from the sale of agricultural products on board,
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
The purpose of Commission Regulation (EEC) N° 3186/76 of 22 December 1976 was to put an end. with effect from 15 January 1977 to abuses involving the sale at reduced prices on "board certain vessels of agricultural products for which export refunds had "been granted, with a view to reintroducing them into the Community free of import charges in travellers 'personal baggage .
Some firms are continuing such practices "by substituting products from non-member countries for Community products. These firms deliver to the
vessels, with the same aim as that described above, products from non- member countries which come from free zones or bonded warehouses situated
in the Community. Such products are not subject to the import charges applicable in the Community and are therefore- sold at prices lower than those ruling on the Community market.
The purpose of this draft Regulation is to put an end to this situation, which is extremely detrimental to Community products and to products properly imported from non-member countries.
Under the proposed solution, the products from non-member countries which are to be sold on board with a view to being reintroduced into the Community free of import charges must be placed in free circulation in the Community prior to being placed on board.
Since this Regulation is based on article 43 of the Treaty, the European Parliament must be consulted.
There are no financial reperoussions on the Community budget .
on certain measures to prevent abuses resulting from the sale of agricultural products on "board, ship
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 43 and 235 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament,
Whereas no refund is to "be grdnted on products sold or distributed on board ship which are liable to be subsequently reintroduced into the Community free of levies under Council Regulation (EEC) N° 1818/75 of 10 July 1975 on the agricultural levies, compensatory amounts and other import charges applicable to agricultural products and to certain goods resulting from their processing, contained in travellers 'personal baggage
Whereas experience has shown that competing products which are not in free circulation within the Community are sold or distributed on board certain vessels for the same purpose as that described above ; whereas this results in discri– mination against the produots in free circulation within the Community ;
whereas such a situation should be rectified ,
1. Goods covered by the common agricultural policy or by the specific arrange­ ments applicable, under Article 235 of the Treaty, to certain goods resul­ ting from the processing of agricultural products delivered on board ship in the Community for sale or distribution on board must , prior to delivery , be or be placed in one of the situations provided for in Article 9 (2) of the Treaty.
Goods delivered on board ship shall "be considered as having "been delivered for sale or distribution on board unless the exporter, at the request and to the satisfaction of the competent authorities , proves that the said
goods are to he unloaded in a non-member country or delivered for the victualling of vessels on international routes, including intra–Community routes .
3. ForthepurposesofthisRegulation,"victualling"meansanygoodsintended solely for consumption on board ship by members of the crew or by passengers .
Where necessary, detailed rules for the application of this Regulation shall be ad­ opted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26 of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 °r» as the case may be, in the corresponding Articles of the other Regulations on the common organization of agricultural markets.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 April 1977•
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, For the Commission
