Skapcn oxr» Blivand OXB
Schevcningcn PCH Oostcndc OST North Forclaad CNF Hum her CKZ Cullcrcoats CCC Wick CKR Oban CNE
GkB CKC Land's End CLD
 Agreed Record of conclusion of Fishery consultations between J.orway, Sweden and the European Economic Community, Brussels, 10-11 January 1979
I. 1. A Norwegian delegation, headed by Mr. K. RAASOK, a Swedish dslegation, headed by Mr. L.-HANNERZ and a Community delegation headed
by Mr. M. MARCUSSEft, met in Brussels on 10-11 January 1979 to consult withintheframework oftheAgreementbetweenDenmark,.Norwayand
Sweden concerning mutual fishing rights in Skagerrak and Kattegat of 19 December 1966 on regulatory measures for fishing in Skagerrak and Kattegat in 1979» ~ '
2. The meeting in Brussels was a continuation of previous meetings in Oslo, Stockholm and Brussels. ,
II0 1. The delegationsagreed to recoiamend their respective authorities to adopt regulations to assure that fishing in 1979 be limited t6 ths TAC'o end quotas set out hereafter:
| . Whiting } Plaice
Allocation to Norway t
Allocation to Allocate
(1) Area A: the area defined in art. 1 of the Aireenent of 19«12.1voo Area B; the area defined in art. 1 of the Agreement of 19«1^'19°°
extended to the southern boundary of Kattegat defined as a
• ' straight -line from Hasenpre Koved to Gniben Odde, from i\.orsha~e
to Spodsbjerg and from Gillbjerg Hoved to Kullen.
(2) This quota might be increased to 1500 t if so requested by !*orway« The
TAC is then increased to 15.000 t. ' „ (3) This quota might be increased to 750 t if bo request&a by IJorway. 1ho
TAC is then increased to 9-350 t.
(4) This quota does not include fjord herring, which is caught between
the Swedish frontier and the Lindesnas.
(5) This quota might be increased to 47®500 t if so requested by EEC® The TAC is then increased to. 77®500 t»
The quota referred to in paragraph 1 &£& Tba tcJkea ia tha following areas s : .}
» vessels flying the flags of Eenraarkg Sweden oad Norway* anywhere in area A outside the coastal sona c?.4 zdlss of
' the other party %
-» vessels flying the flag of other Member States of the Community anywhere in area A outside the coastal zone of
12 jailea measured from the base–liass of IJortray ead Sweden%
°» vessels flying the flag1 of Denmark azid Sweaens
anywhere in the Skagerrak outside the 4 miles acnes end is.
Kattegat outside the 3 nsile3 ssones of the other party5
«■ vasseia flying the flag of other Member States of the
" Community anywhere in area B outside the 12 miles coastal
acnes measured from the base–lines of Norway and Sweden?
– vessels flying the " flag of Norway only ia area A outside the coastal zone of 4 miles of the other party.
The delegations agreed to recommend their . respective authorities .*
to adopt the following regulations ia respect of area As
1» Directed fishing for herring shall be prohibited from 1 January to 31 March 1979 and from 1 October to 31 Itecsaber 1979®
2* directed fishing for herring for purposes other thaa husiaa consumption shall be prohibited#
3* The uso of traul sad purse seine for the capture of pelagic
species shall bo prohibited froa Saturday midnight to Sunday aidnigh'
 IV. The parties will cOntlnua consultation# concerning the hanconiBation of other regulatory measures.
Bruaasla, January 21th 1979
(l) exoept ICEo arean ?4 and 25
Agreed record of conclusions of fishery consul tations between ;{*?eden. arid the . European ' foonotiio Community,
Gothenburg 1-2 February 1979 ' .
Pursuant to the Agreement oft. fisheries <>etween the
and the Government of uwed-en signed on ?1 March 19 " '•,* ' »*-
• delegations - fro-n- the : two parties v>*>t in Gothen.iur*:
1.2 Fe;>r"»ry. 19-'J to ccinn.11' n*.o»t their .fisher!'1^ •«■
relatious in 19 ,n < ,
" The Tieetinr in Goth«u,,,jrir a continuation of prpvin-is . meetings in ''rusr.el s find ."itockrril-7 .
The delegations •sirxeed to recommend their renpeefci'•»» authorities the following arrangements :
I Kach party shall open for 1979 the catch ouotas indie--. !.*k hereunder for the- other in its respective fishery r - - v - • :
1, Quotas for Community vepsej a in the 3*.vodish fishery 7or>» of the Baltic Gea south of 59°50,IT. -
Species ICIO.'! dtvisibn Quantity ( tonnn
(2) subject tottfnitiallin*?an- agreement '.etT»ern the
parties on certain measures for the purpose of further!nn reproduction of salmon in the "altic .
 2. Quotas for Swedish vessels in the Community zone of the Baltic Sea and the North Sea.
- Plaice and other flatfish
Quantity (tonnes)
Blue whiting
Whiting
(1) of which at least 2 250Qt has to be taken in ' .sub-area IV .north of 60 N and west of- 2 E.
(2) north of. 56 30'N. -
3.1 Each party shall adopt regulations to assure that
fishing in 1979 in the Kattegatt be limited to the TAC's
and quotas^sut hereafter and to allow access to vessela
. of the other party as set outyin subparagraph 3*2.
Whiting Plaice
' Allocation to Sweden (t) •
Allocation to ETSC (t)
3«2 She quota5referred to in subparagraph 3»1 may be taken in the Kattegat by:
species^Lin the Kattegat from Friday midnirht to Sunday midnight. ■ . -
2. Direotsd fishing in the Kattegatt for herring' for purposes other than human consumption is prohibited .
Eaoh party shall issue to vessels of the other party for fishing the quotas referred \;o in paragraph I the number of licenses set out hereafter and jn
accordance with the following procedures»la-id–o.ifr-' .♦.»'
1.. For Swedish fishery in the £3EC zone.
The Baltic:
Cod and herring-fishery: 75 licenses to be selected
monthly out of a list of M 30 vessels <',
Salmon: 6 licenses to be selected monthly out of a • listof12vessels. • '
■ The North seas
all species except ling: 21 licenses to be selected monthly out of a list of 50 vessels '
2. The EEC fishery in the Swedish zone: . The Baltic: ~ .
Cod, herring, sprat: 125 licenses to be selected monthly out of a list of 400 vessels
- vessels flying :the flag of Denmark and S7/eden anywhere outside the 3 miles zonea of. the other nartv;
-•vessels flying the flag of other Member States of the
Community anywhere outside the 12 miles coastal zone measured from the hairlines" of Sweden.
• II 1. Each party /shall, adopt regulations prohibiting the use. . of trawl 'and purse seine ^*for the capture of "pelnglc
Salmons 35 licenses to be selected monthly out of a list of 50 vessels
The parties shall notify eachother of ihe vessels to be
licensed for fishing in the zone of the other party during
one month at the latest on the first day of the proceeding month
The Swedish delegation informed the Community delegation of the intention of the Swedish Govorment to maintain in force the
prohibition on all fishingwith trawl and parse-seine from
Friday midnight to Sunday midnight within the 12 miles zone of Sweden in the Kattegat.
The Comunity delegation took note of this declaration . Gothenburg Februay 2, 1979
Land's End Valenria Malin Head Boulogne Brest
St. Nazatrc Bordcaux-Arcachoo Prins Chrcdzns Sand Juli3r.cr.asb
 Agreed Record of conclusion of Fishery consultations between Korway, Sweden and the European Economic Community, Brussels, 10-11 January 1979
I. 1. A Norwegian delegation , headed by Mr. K. RAASOK, a Swedish delegation, headed by Mr. L.-HANNERZ and a Community delegation headed
by Mr. M. MARCUSSEN, met in Brussels on 10-11 January 1979 to consult within the framework of the Agreement between Denmark, .Norway and Sweden concerning mutual fishing rights in Skagerrak and Kattegat of 19 December I966 on regulatory measures for fishing in Skagerrak and Kattegat in 1979 « " %
2. The meeting in Brussels was a continuation of previous meetings in Oslo , Stockholm and Brussels . ,
II . 1. The delegations agreed to recommend their respective authorities to adopt regulations to assure that fishing in 1979 toe limited to the TAC's and quotas set out hereafter:
J . Whiting I Plaice
Area TAC 1979 Allocation to Allocation to Allocate -
Area A: the area defined in art. 1 of the A,jreezient of 19.12.19co Area B: the area defined in art. 1 of the Agreement of 19«12.19oo
extended to the southern boundary of Kattegat defmed as a
' ' straight -line from Hasenpre Hoved to Gniben Odde, from Korshage
to Spodsbjerg and from Gillbjerg Hoved to Kulien.
This quota rai^ht be increased to 1500 t if so requested by !*orway. The TAC ia then increased to 15.000 t.
This quota might be increased to 750 t if eo requea^&ci by Norway. The TAC is then increased to 9«350 t.
This quota does not include fjord herring, which is ccaght between
the Swedish frontier and the Lindesnas.
(5) This quota, sight be increased to 47*500 t if so recruested by EEC* 'The TAC is then increased to. 77»500 t»
The q-ic-ta referred -so la, pasrecjpapb 1 E^y to takea la tha &re&3 s ; «
t-} tracte.3 for area Ag
" x'espels ing the flags of Donaark, Sweden end ilorways anywhere in area A outaide the coastal sons of 4 adlas ©f
' ths other partyj
=» vessels flying ths flag of other Member States of the Community anywhere in area A outside the coastal zone of 12 ciiIt;g measured from the baselines of Norwey cad Swedesz
cL'vvrhcro in the SIcages-rait cux^ila the 4 miles scnes aad is
«» vccscJ.- flying ths flag of other Member States of the Conunuaity siiywhere in area B outside the 12 niles coastal zones measured from the bass–lines of Norway and Swedenj
– vessels flying the- flag of Norway only is area & outside the eoastal zone of 4 miles of the other party®
a de'.'C^uticas agreed to recommend thei^.respective authorities 4
zioyi "Viie follc^ng regulations i-espoct of area As
^ircr.tod fiahirc for herring shall ba prohibited from 1 Jaauasy to3" .'L-rch1975andfrom1Octoberto31December1979®
Directed fishing for herring for purposes other than human ccnsweption shall be prohibited.
The use of trawl end purs© seine for the capture of pelagic
3p.se? cs ba prohibited fL-oa Saturday c&daight to Su&dsy aidrd^ht
XV. Tho jartiea wili continue eon-altaticns csaooraisg the keruoaloatioa of other rasulatary asc^susas*
 . Agreed record of conclusions- ;'of "fishery, consultations between :.Uvedeh-.antft the European r*coiio;iic Community,
Pursuant , to the ^-'creement oft. fi sherieS uetween the "and the Government, of owe<i-en signed on'21 March. 19''"
' delegations -; .fro-n; the two parties met in Gothenburg on 1-2 February".19'-'*3"to consti]t' a-.o->t their fishori<?s
relations in i9';?> , '
%• The meetinr; in Gothen'-ur-.r was a continuation of previous
meetings in - ''ruscel s and ."> tockr61n . .
The delegations agreed to recommend their respective
authorities the following arrangements:
Each party shall open for 1 979 'the catch ouotas inaicated
hereunder for the- other in its respective fishery zonor: •'*-..•'*
Quotas for Community. vessels in the Swedish fishery zone
of the Baltic'Sea south of 59°30• ' '
Quantity (tonnes) Cod •' IIIb#-c,d 6500.
(l) except lCEo area? ?4 and-25 "
(2) subject to{Initiallin^/an- agreement between the
pa.rties on certain measures for the purpose of furthering reproduction of salmon- in the. Baltic, . '
(1) of which at least 2 250Qt has to be takgn in sub-area IV north of 60 N and west of 2 E.
(2) north of 56 30'N. ,
2. Quotas for Swedish vessels in the Community zone of the ι
Baltio Sea and thé North Sea. ^
Plaice and other flatfish
Blue whiting1 Lin /r
Whiting
Quantity (tonnes)
3.1 Each party shall adopt regulations to assure that fishing in 1979 in the Kattegatt be limited to the TA.C ' s and quotas^ut hereafter and to allow access to vrsspId
. oftheotherpartyassetoutAinsubparagraph3.2.
Allocation to Sweden (t)
Allocation to KKC (t)
3»2 The quota5referred to in subparagraph 3»1 may be taken in the Kattegat byr
- vesselB flying the flag of Denmark and Sweden anywhere #«
outside the 3 miles zones of. the other party;
- vessels flying the flap of other Member States of the
Each party {shall adopt regulations prohibiting the .J*e of trawl "and purse seine ^ for the capture of pel -v-io
species^Lin the Kattegat from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight.
2. Direoted fishing in the Kattegatt for herring for
purposes other than human consumption is prohibited .
Eaoh party shall issue to vessels of the other pmt.v for fishing the quotas referred 'to .in paragraph 3
the number of licenses set out hereafter and in
monthly out of a list of 50 vessels ' 1»
Ling ( long-liners ) is 3 licenses
The EEC fishery in the Swedish zone: The Baltici
Cod # herring , sprat ? 125 licenses to monthly out of a list of 400 vessels
Community anywhere outside the 12 miles coaatal zone ^ n/
measured from the baselines" of Sweden.
accordance with the
For Swedish fishery in the EEC zone.
The Balticj
Cod and herring-f ishery s 75 licenses
monthly out of a list of 1JO vessels 4«,*
to be
Salmon: 6 licenses to be selected monthly out of «. list of 12 vessels .
The North seaj
all species except lingt 21 licenses to be soloctod
 Salmon: 55 licenses to be selected monthly out of a list of -
The parties shall notify eachother of the vessels to be licensed' for fishing in the zone of the other party during one month at . the latest on the first day of the proceeding
The Swedish delegation informed the Community delegation of the ' intention of the Swedish Govorment to maintain in force the .
prohibition on all fishirgwith trawl and purse-seine from Friday midnight to. Sunday midnight within the 12 miles zone of Sweden in the Kattegat. . ; ' ...
TheConrunitydelegationtooknoteof. thisdeclaration# Gothenburg Februay 2, 1979
Blivand Norddcich
Stonehaven CND Pomhcad CKA
Land's End
Floro Rogaland •
– Ti Mciuahe (Eogr&ulà cscrsskfoiua)
 Agreed Record of conclusion of Fishery consultations between J.orvay, Sweden and the European Economic Community, Brussels, 10-11 January 1979
I. 1. A Norwegian delegation, headed by Mr. K. RAASOX, a Swedish delegation, headed by Mr. L.-HANNERZ and a Community delegation headed
by Mr. M. MARCUSS3?, taet in Brussels on 10-11 January 1979 to consult within the framework of the Agreement between Denmark, Norway and
Sweden concerning mutual fishing rights in Skagerrak and Kattegat of 19 December 1966 on regulatory measures for fishing in Skagerrak and
2. The meeting in Brussels was a continuation of previous meetings in Oslo, Stockholn and Brussels. '
II, 1. The delegationsagreed to recommend their respective authorities to adopt regulations to assure that fishing in 1979 be l*aited to the TAG'S and quotas set out hereafter: ■ .
I Ârea. î TAC 1979 ! Allocation to Allocation to
Allocrai . to t
| . Whiting l 'A
(1) Area Ai the area defined in art» 1 of the Agreement of
Area B: the area defined in art. 1 of the Agreement of^19-12*x9oo
extended to the southern boundary of Kattegat defined as a ^
' ' straight -line from Hasenpre Koved to Gniben Odde, from Korsna~e
to Spodsbjerg end from C-ilibjerg Hoved to Kullen. ^ (2) This Quota might be increased to 1500 t if so requested by Norway.
TAG is then increased to 15-000 t. ^ (3) This quota might be increased to 750 t if recrues':K. ay Norway.
TAG is then increased to 9»350 t»
(4) This quota does not include fjord herring, which is car.-h^ between
the Swedish frontier and the Lindesnas.
(5) This quota Eight be increased to 47»500 t if so yaqniested by EEC* ThsTAGistliaaincreasedto. 77»500t.
The quota referred to in paragraph 1 may ca tekea ia the following areas s •' .j •
– vessels flying the flags of Eenmarkg Sweden and Noruays anywhere in area A outside the coastal sens of.4 milss of
' the other party}
-» vessels flying the flag of other Member States of the Community anywhere in area A outside the coastal zone of
12 miles measured froaa tha bass–lines of Nonsa& aad Swedeaj
« vessels flying the flag of Denmark and Swedens
anywhere in the Slcagerrak outside the 4 miles zones end in
Kattegat outside the 3 miles sones of the other partyj
» vessela flying the flag of other Member States of the
' Community anywhere in area B outside the 12 miles coastal
zones measured from the base–lines of Norway and Sweden|
– vessels flying the " flag of Norway only in area A outside the coastal zone of 4 ndles of the other party.
The delegations agreed to recommend their respective authorities ..4
to adopt the following regulations ia respect of area As
1« Directed fishing for herring shall be prohibited from 1 January to 31 I-Iarch 1979 and from 1 October to 31 December 1979«>
2» Directed fishing for herring for purposes other thaa human consumption shall be prohibited® '
3« The use of trawl and purse 6eine for the capture of pelagic
species chail be prohibited froa Saturday ciidnight to Sunday aidnighi
Brussels, January 11th 1979
IV. The parties will continue consultations conoerning the haraonieation of other regulatory measures.
Agreed record of-conclusions-'of fishery consultations between iiwedon and the.European i;WaO:iic Community,
/ Gothenburg 1-2 February 19.79
Pursuant to £h© Agreement oft.fisViorie6 between the V/ find the Government of liwed-en signed on ?1 March 19''
• delegations fro i the two parties f-et in Gothennurr; on
1.2 Fe rv.19• to ccinnlt a.vr>t t*ieir fishnrios / *•
of the Baltic Gea south,of 59°30'!T. '
Quantity (tonrior.)
* T-if noptinr in Gotr«en,".ir.*r was 'a. continuation of prrvionp !ueetinr« in "r-isr.ol s sn-i . tock'ro
Tho deleft"! Liong .a^Trprd to recommend their respective
authorities the following arrangements: ,r
Each party shall open for 1979 the catch ouotas inaicnt.ed hereunder for the- other iri its respective fishery znrr-r:
1, Quotas for Community versela in the o'vecish fishery zone
(1) except ICES arean ?A and ?5
(?) subject to^Uvitiallinsr/an agreement '.etweon the
parties on certain measures for the purpose of further!nr. reproduction of salmon in the "altic.
 2» Quotas for Swedish vessels in the Community zone of the
Quantity (tonnes)
Plaice and other flatfish
Blue whiting1
Ling Whiting
Whiting Plaice
TAG 79 . ' Allocation to Allocation to tiVIC
(l)' of which at least 2 250 t has to be taken in ' sub-area .IV .north of 60 N and west of- 2 E.
3.1 Each party shall adopt regulations to assure that fishing in 1979 in the Kattegatt be limited to the TAC's and quotas^/^ut hereafter and to allow access to vessels
• of the other party as set outsin subparagraph 3*2. '* ■'»
3.2 She quotasreferred to in subparagraph 3»1 may be taken in the Kattegat by:
, „ ■ * vessels ^ flying - the flag of Denmark and Sweden anywhere
. outside the 3 miles zonea of. the other partv: ''.'**"'
species^Lin the Kattegat from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight. •" " \
2 . Direoted fishing , in the Kattegatt for herring for v•
., purposes other than human consumption is prohibited,
Each party shall issue to vessels of the other party for fishing tne quotas referred ^o in paragraph I the number of licenses set out hereafter and in
accordance with the following prgcetinrc";lnid out ' -/-fes-roundog-vj , .
1* For Swedish fishery in the EEC zone". The Baltic :
. Cod and herring-fishery: 75 ifcenses to be selected
monthly out' of a list of A50 vessels -•■,•' •^**
Salmon: 6 licenses to be selected monthly out of a ; list of .12 vessels . • •
, - -vessels flying'the flag of other Member States of the
; Community anywhere outside the 12 miles coastal zone measured . from the baselines' of Sweden.
II 1.,Each party .shall, adopt regulations prohibiting the use. trawl 'and purse . seine J^for the capture of 'pelnric
" The ïïorth sea: . ... • */,
all species except ling: 21 licenses to be selected
monthly out of a list of 50 vessels ' •' . *' .
_ 2. The EEC fishery in the Swedish zone: . The Baltic;
• Cod , herring,' sprat : 125 licenses to be monthly out of a list of 400 vessels
Salmon: 35 iicenees to be selected month!; oui of a liât 01 7O vessels
The parties shall notify eacnother of the vessels to be licensed' fox- fishing in the zone of the ctner party during one month at the latent on ths first day of the proceeding mop.th
The Swedish delegation informed the Community delegation of the intention of the Swedish Govorment to maintain in force the
prohibition on all fishir^with trawl and purse-aeine from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight within the 12 milea zone of Sweden in the Kattegat.
The Comunity delegation took note of this declaration. Gothenburg Februay 2, 1979
Anglesey Ilfraoombe Niton Stonehaven Portshead
Land's End Valentia Mai in Head Boulogne Brest
 .Ljrec-cl Record oi conclusion of Fishery concultations between Norway* Suc&ea and the European Economic Community, Brussels, 20-11 January 1979
1. A Norwegian delegation, headed by Mr. K. RAA.S0K, a Swedish d;.?o headed by Mr. L.• HANNERZ and a Community delegation headed by I£r. M. MARCUSSSN, net in Brussels on 10–11 January 1979 to consult viihintheframework. oftheAgreementbetweenDenmark,.Jlorwayand
Sudden concerning mutual fishing rights in Skagerrsk and Kattegat of 19 December 1966 on regulatory measures for fishing in Scagerrak and
2. The seating in Brussels was a continuation of previous meetings in Oslof Stockholm end Brussels. ,
I";j 1« The delegationsagreed to recommend their respective uuihoritics to adopt regulations to assure that fishing -in 1979 "be liaitad to the TACs and quotas set out hereafter:
Allocation to IAIlocation to i[ Allocati.,-.
j Sweden t j to t _L_Z_ J
(1) Area A: the area defined in art. 1 of the Agreement of 19.12.1966 Area B: the area defined in art. 1 of the Agreement of 19.12.19oo
extended to the southern boundary of Kattegat defined as a straight *1ine from Hasenb're Hoved to Gniben Odde, from Xorshaqe to Spodsbjerg £r.d from Gillbjerg Hoved to Xullen.
(2) This quota might be increased to 1500 t if so requested by Norway. The TAC is then increased to 1 5-000 t.
(3) This quota might be increased to 750 t if so requested by Norway. The TAC is then increased to 9«35'0 t.
(4) This quota does not include fjord herring* which is caught, between the Swedish frontier and the Lindesnas.
(5)This, quotaEightbeincreasedto47*500tifsorequestedbyEEC* The TAG Is tiiasa iac^eased to. 77<>500 t»
Tjzq quota referred to 4a p^e-c^eph 1 esqy fc© tcJuoi la the following areas s ; .
*" vc2.s«l® ilying the flags of Denmark, Swedes and Uortrayi aaywnere in area A outside the eoaataJL sobs ©f ©f
' the other partyj
•=» vessels flying the flag of other Member States of the Community anywhera 4a area A outside the coastal sose of
12 axles measured froa tho bcfie-IXaass of Iv&w^7 &a<| Swd<?a$ b5 Çîio^'v -Y*** r«
eaywhero in the Skagerrak outsida the 4 miles aoneo end ^ Kattegat outside tho 3 miles zones of the other part-»r
« vessels flying the flag of other Member Staxes of the Community anywhere in area B outeld© the 12 miles coastal a:ones measured from the base–lines of Norway cud Sweden}
– vasselo flying' the - flag of Norway only ii: area A outside the coastal sen© of 4 miles of the other party#
The delegations agreed to recommend their resoectiva authorities 4
. -«.o adopt the following regulations ia respect of area As
3.® directed fishing for herring shall be prohibited from 1 January to 31 March 1979 and from 1 October to 31 l^scember 1979®
2* directed fiehing for herring for purposes other thaa • humaa consumption shall be prohibited# • ■
3« The ti3,-5 of trawi ead purse seine for the capture of palagic
epeoiea to prohibited from Saturday midnight to Sunday aidnight
 IV. Tho particj will continue concraltailcns conooroisg the harsioniaatioa of othar regulatory mesLsuarss*
 Agreed record of - conclusions-' of fishery , consultations between Sweden - ancl'l the , European l^conoriic Community ,
Gothent'urp 1-2' February 1 97,9 ' - ■" •; .
''n/* to the /i-'Treement oj*. fi shorieS between the
"and the Government, of owed-en signed on '21 March - 19'*'"
delegations .fro'n- the two parties met in Gothenburg on 1-2 JPeor««»ry\19'.'0-to ccifu.lt"a*<<>•*t their fisheri
The meetinr; in Gotbeu'-ur? was a continuation of previous meetings in • Brussel s and . '.tockpól/rw .
The delegations to recommend their respective authorities the following arrangements :
Each party shall, open for 1979 'the- catch ouotas inaicated hereunder for the other iri its respective1 fishery zonor:
Quotas for Community , vers el s in the ;-j'.vedish fishery zone
of the Baltic -'Sea south of 59°30'!T. -
Quantity ( tonnes )
(1; except ICEo arear 24 and 25
(2) subject to^irn.itiallinfl:?an- agreement between the
parties on certain measures for the purpose of furthering reprod\>ction of salmon- in the . Baltic * '
(l) of which at least 2 250Qt has to be takgn in sub-area IV north of 60 N and west of 2 T<!,
(2) north of 56 30'N. ,
2. Quotas for Swedish vessels in the Community zone of the Baltic Sea and the North Sea.
Plaiceand other flatfish
Blue whiting Linr,
Whiting
Quantity (tonnrn)
3.1 Each party shall adopt regulations to assure that fishing in 1979 in the Kattegatt be limited to the TAO ' ;; and quotas^jut hereafter and to allow access to vessel:>
. of the other party as set outs In subparagraph
Allocation to Sweden (t)
Allocation to (t)
3»2 The quota5referred to in subparagraph 3«1 maj' be taken in the Kattegat by»
 vessels flying the flag: of Denmark and Sweden anywher outside the 3 miles zones of. the other party ;
vessels flying the flap of other Morn1 er States of the Coranmnity anywhere outside the 1 ? jitilnn ccn-it ;.! zon >? measured from the bar^lines of :jv;r>df>n.
Each party shall adopt regulations prohibiting 1 hr- of trawl 'and purse seine «^for the capture of pel - species ^- in the Kattegat from Friday midnight tn Sunday midnight.
Direoted fishing in the Kattegatt for herring' for purposes other than human consumption is prohi bi t.ci .
Eaoh party shall issue to' vessels of the other p^it .. for fishing the quotas referred lo j ri paragraph ]
the number of licenses set out hereafter and in
accordance with the following procedures ; laid- ou *!-
For Swedish fishery In the EEC zone.
The Balticï
Cod and herring-fishery: 75 licenses to be selected monthly out of a list of 150 vessels
3almon: 6 licenses to be selected monthly out of n list of 12 vessels .
The North eeaj ' "
all species except lingt 21 licensee to be selected monthly out of a list of 50 vessels '
The EEC fishery in the Swedish zones The Baltic *
Cod , herring , oprati 125 licenses to be monthly out of a list of 400 vessels
Saiaon: 35 licenses to be selected monthly out of a list of - 50 vessels ■ .
3. The parties shall notify eachother of the vessels to "be
licensed' for fishing in the zone of the other party during
one month at . the latest on the first day of the proceeding month .
The Swedish delegation informed the Community delegation of the intention of the Swedish Govorment to mairjtain in force the prohibition on all fishirgwith trawl and purse–seine from Friday midnight to. Sunday midnight within the 12 miles zone of Sweden in the Kattegat. •
The Coniunity delegation took note of this declaration.
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION
laying down for 1979 certain measures for the conservation and management of fishery resources applicable to vessels
flying the flag of Sweden
( submitted to the Council by the Commission )
Pursuant to the framework Agreement on Fisheries between the European Economic Community and Sweden signed on 21 March 1977 the two parties have consulted about their fisheries relations in 1979. These consultations have resulted in agreement between the two delegations about fishing rights for the year 1979 for each party
in the waters of the other ana about the need to introduce TAC's
for certain joint stocks occurring in Kattegat and their allocations between the parties.
Furthermore tripartite consultations between the Communityf Norway and Sweden abovit regulatory measures for fishing in Skagerrak and part of Kattegat have resulted in agreement between the delegations about the need to establish TACs for certain fish stocks occurring in these areas and about the size and allocations of these TACs.
It is the purpose of the two Regulations proposed hereby to establish a regime allowing Swedish vessels to fish in the Community
fishery zone in accordance with the agreements reached during the said consultations .
The arrangements provided for in these Regulations
are based upon the attached Agreed Records of the conclusion of the consultations* Since the interim regime under which Swedish, vessels _
are authorised to fish at present in the Community's fishery zone (Regulation (EEC) no.' 3151 /78) expires on 28 February 1979 ^ is necessary that a new regime is adopted before that date if an interruption of the reciprocal fishing activities between the Community and Sweden
is to be avoided.
lii order to respect this time limit the Commission proposes that
the proposed regiiaa be established initially by an interis. Regulation on the basis of Article 103 of the Treaty and subsequently replaced
by a Regulation adopted under Article 43. The Commission therefore submits at the same time proposals for two Regulations.
The Council is invited to adopt the Regulation based upon Article 103 before 28 February and to adopt the second Regulatior br^ed upon
Article 43 as soon as possible after having' coiiSv.ltad the European Parliament .
laying down for 1979 certain measures for the conservation and management of fishery resources applicable to vesselsflyingtheflagof Sweden.
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (l),
Whereas on 3 November 1976 the Council adopted a set of resolutions concerning certain external and internal aspects of the common fisheries policy;
Whereas the Community and the Kingdom of Sweden have signed a Framework Agreement on fisheries;
Whereas the Commission has submitted the Agreement to the Council for approval
Whereas the Community and Sweden have held consultations concerning their reciprocal fishing allocations for 1979;
Whereas during these consultations the delegations agreed to recommend their respective authorities that they fix certain catch quotas for 1979 for vessels of the other party;
Whereas the Agreement of 19 December 1966 between Denmark, Norway and Sweden on mutual access to fishing in Skagerrak and Kattegat provides that each party shall grant access to fishing by vessels of the. other
parties within its fishing zone in Skagerrak and part of Kattegat seawards of 4 nautical miles from baselines;
Whereas the Convention of 31 December 1932 between Denmark and Sweden concerning fishing conditions in the maritime waters bordering both
parties provides that each party shall grant access to fishing by
vessels of the other party within its fishing zone in the Kattegat seawards of 3 nautical miles from baselines and in certain parts of flresund and the Baltic Sea up to the baselines;
Whereas in the context of these Agreements, the Community, Norway and
Sweden and the Community and Sweden have consulted about regulatory measures in respect of fishing in the area covered by the Agreements;
Whereas.in this context the parties have also consulted about regulatory
measures for certain fish stocks occurring in an area falling within both Skagerrak and Kattegat.
Whereas during these consultations, the delegations agreed to recommend their respective authorities to introduce catch -limitations for certain species in these areas;
Whereas the proposed catch limitations consist of quotas, allocated to each party, which are not subdivided according to the fishing zones of the parties;
Whereas by Regulation (EEC) No /79 of 1979 laying
down for 1979 certain interim measures for the conservation and management .
•of fishery resources applicable to vessels flying the flag of Sweden
the measures laid down in the present Regulation were adopted as interim measures pending their inclusion in the common agricultural policy by the adoption of a Regulation under Article 43 of the Treaty,
1 . Fishing by vessels flying the flag of Sweden in the 200 miles
zone of the Member States in the North Sea , Skagerrak , Kattegat , the
Baltic Sea, the Labrador Sea, Davis Strait, Baffin Bay and the Atlantic Ocean north of 43°00f N shall be authorized in 1979 for the species referred to in Annex I within the geograpnical and quantitative limits laid down therein and in accordance with the provisions laid down in this Regulation.
2. Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 1, fishing by vessels flying the flag of Sweden for species other than those for which quotas are established in Annex I is authorized in Kattegat, Skagerrak and flresund, east of a line drawn from the lighthouse of Hanstholm to the lighthouse of Lindesnes and north of a line drawn from the lighthouse of Stevn§ to the lighthouse of Falsterbo .
3. For the purposes of this Regulation, Skaggerak is limited in the west by
a i"lne drawn from the lighthouse of Hanstholm to the lighthouse of Lindesnes ar.c in the south by a line drawn from Skagen lighthouse to the lighthouse of '."-Istlarna and from there to the nearest coast of Sweden, Kattegat is limited
in the north by a line drawn from Skagen ligthouse to the lighthouse of Tistlarna and from there to the nearest coast of Sweden and in the south by a line drawn from Hasendre Head to Gniben Point, from Korshage to Spodsbjerg, and from Gilbjerg Head to the Kullen, and 0resund is limited in the north by a line drawn from Gilbjerg Point to the Kullen and in the south by a line drawn from the lighthouse of Stevns to the lighthouse of Falsterbo.
A. Fishing authorized under paragraph 1 and 2 shall be limited to the parts of the 200 miles fishing zone lying seawards of 12 nautical miles from the base-lines from which the territorial waters of Member States iare measured, with the following exceptions :
(a) fishing in Skagerrak is authorized seawards of 4 nautical miles from the base-lines of Denmark;
Cb) fishing in Kattegat is authorized seawards of 3 nautical miles from the base-lines of Denmark;
(c) fishing for herring in the Baltic Sea is authorized up to the coast of Bornholm and Kristianso from 1 May until 31 August.
(d) fishing in Gresund is authorized within the areas aud in accordance with the conditions set out in Annex II .
 5. Notwithstanding paragraph 1,unavoidable by-catches of a species for which no quota is established in a zone shall be permitted within the limits fixed in the conservation measures in force in the zone concerned#
6. By–catches in a given zone of a species for which a quota is established in that zone shall be counted against the quota concerned*
1. Vessels fishing under the quotas established in Article 1 shall
comply with the conservation and control measures and all other provisions governing fishing in the zones referred to in Article !•
2. Vessels referred to in paragraph 1 shall keep a logbook in which the information specified in Annex III shall be entered.
3. Vessels referred to in paragraph 1 shall transmit to the Commission, according to the rules set out in Annex IV, the information specified in
that Annex.
4. The registration letters and numbers of the vessels referred to in paragraph 1 must be clearly marked on the bow of the vessel on both sides.
1. Pishing within ICES subareas IV and VI, and ICES division III,(b),(<:), under the quotas established in Article 1 shall be permitted
only where a licence issued by the Commission on behalf of the Community at the request of the Swedish authorities is held on board and where the
conditions set out in the licence are observed.
2. Licences shall be issued for the purposes of paragraph 1
subject to the condition that the number of licences valid on any one
day shall not exceed:
75 for fishing cod and herring in the Baltic Sea
6 for fishing salmon in the Baltic Sea
21 for fishing in ICES subareas IV and VI all species referred to
in Annex I other than ling
3 for fishing ling in ICES subareas ,IV and VI.
3. When an application for a licence is submitted to the Commission, the following information shall be supplied:
(a) name of the vessel;
(c) external identification letters and numbers; (d) port of régistration;
(e) name and address of the owner or charterer; (f) gross tonnage and overall length;
(h) call sign and radio frequency;
(i) intended method of fishing;
(j) intended area of fishing;
(k) species for which it is intended to fish; (l) period for which a licence is requested.
5« -Licencesmaybecancelledwithaviewto issuingnewlicences. Cancellation shall take effect from the date of the surrender of
the licence., to the Commission*
6. Licences issued pursuant to Regulation (EEC) No /79
shall remain valid if so requested by the Swedish authorities. 1
Each licence shall be valid for one vessel only. When several vessels
are taking part in the same fishing operation, each vessel shall be in possession of a licence.
Fishing in Skagerrak for the quotas referred to in Article 1 is subject to the following provisions:
1. Directed fishing for herring is prohibited from 1 January to 31 March 1979 and from 1 October to 31 December 19795
2. Directed fishing for herring for purposes other than human consumption
3. The use of trawls and purse seines for catching pelagic .species . is prohibited from Saturday midnight to Sunday midnight.
Pishing in Kattegat for the quotas referred to in Article 1 shall be subject to the following provisions:
1. Directedfishingforherringforpurposesotherthanhuman consumption is prohibited;
2. Theuseoftrawlandpurseseinefor.catching-ofpelagicspecies
is prohibited from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight. Arti ele 6
Only long-liners are authorized to fish for ling.
The competent authorities of the Member States shall take appropriate steps, including the regular inspection of vessels, to ensure the enforcementofthisRegulation. >
Where en infringement is duly established the Member States shall, withoutdelay, informtheCommissionofthenameofthevesselinvolved
and of any action they have taken. «
isherebyrepealed.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply until 31 Deoember 1979»
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member StateBy--..
For the Counoil, The President
| Blue whiting Herring
Area within which fishing is authorised Quantity ( tonnes )
(1) Limited in the west by a line drawn from the lighthouse of Hanstholm to the lighthouse of Lindesnes and in the south by a line drawn from Skagen lighthouse to the lighthouse of Tistlarna and from there to the nearest coast of Sweden
(2) To be reduced by the quantities taken outside the EEC fishing zone
(3) Limited in the north by a line drawn from Skagen lighthouse to the lighthouse
of Tistlarna and from there to the nearest coast of Sweden and in "iie south by a line drawn from Hasen/^re Head to Gniben Point , from Korshage to Spoc3<3ujerg, and from Gilbjerg Head to the Kullen.
(4) Of which no more than 1.500 t may be fished in the parts of IUs;3 subarea IV sixuaxea either south of 60° north or east of 2° E
(5). North of 56°30'N
1 . Inside a depth of 7 m is only allowed
a ) fishing by net for herring , and
b) fishing by lines in the months of July to October inclusively .
2. Outside a depth of 7 m fishing by trawl or seine is prohibited South of a line from Ellekilde Hage to Lerberget.
3. Notwithstanding para 2 fishing is allowed on the Middelgrunden by
"Agnvod" which does not measure more than 7,5 m between "Armspidserne".
4. North of the line referred to in para 2 fishing by trawl or Danish seine is allowed until 3 nautical miles from the coast.
 The following details arc to be entered in the log-book after each haul: 1. The tjucntity (in kg) of each specie* caught;
2 The date and the time of the haul;
3. The geographical position in which (he catches were made;
4. The fishing method used.
1. The information to be transmitted, to the Commission and the time­ table for its transmission are as follows:
1.1. On each occasion the vessel enters the 200 nautical-mile fishing zone off the coasts of the Member States of the
Community which is covered by Community rules on fisheries: (a) the information specified under point 1.4 below;
(b) the quantity (in kg) of each species of fish in the hold; (c) when and where fishing is to commence.
In the event that the fishing operation requires repeated daily entries into the Community fisheries zone a single communication on first entering the zone will suffice.
1.2. On each occasion the vessel leaves the 200 nau.tical-mile . fishing zone off the coasts of the Member States of the
Community which is covered by Community rules on fisheries:
(a) the information specified under point 1.4 below;
(b) the quantity (in kg) of each species of fish in the hold;
(c) the quantity (in kg) of each species caught since the
(d) the ICES division or ICNAF zone in which the catches were
(e) the quantity (in kg) of each species transferred to other
vessels since the vessel entered the Community fishing zone
and the identification of the vessel to which the transfer
was made;
(f) the quantity (in kg) of. each species landed in a port of
the Community since the vessel entered the Community fishing zone.
In the event that the fishing operation requires repeated
daily exits from the Community fisheries zone,a single communication on the last exit will suffice.
At weekly intervals, commencing on the seventh day after the vessel first enters the zone of the Member States:
(a) the information specified under point 1.4 below;
(b) the quantity (in kg) of each species caught since the previous transmission; (c) the ICES division or ICNAF zone in which the catches were made.
(a) The n.imt, call sign, identification numbers and letter* of the vessel and the name of its itustcr;
!)*) the the time and the geographical position of the vessel. U) the serin! numher of tnc message;
•. J; id.-ntifUation of the rypc of message;
TSc information specified under point 1 shall be transmitted to the Commission of the I'.uMpe.m Communities in Brussels (telex address 21877 COMF.U) via one of the radio M.H:<I".S listed under point 3 below and in the form specified under point 4.
if it i\ ini^iv.lMe for reasons of force majeure for the message to be transmitted by the u" .it, it may be transmitted on the vessel's behalf by another vessel.
North Foreland Hiimbcr
L.ind's End
. ï orm of communications.
Transmission of the information specified under point 1 shall take the form of message*
pxcviMcvl by the words 'Pccheur Brussels* and the information elements shall be given in the 1» iilm\ in :; nrder :
– i be code 4Pc*.hcur Brussels'; ' – n.itne of vessel:
– external identification letters and numbers;
– serial number of the message for the voyage in question;
– indication of the type of message according to the following code: – message – when entering the Community zone: 'IN',
– mesvigc – when le.n ing the Community zone; "OUT*,
– weekly mcsvv.'.e: "WKL*;
the geographical position;
the ICrS division or ICNAF zone in which fishing is expected to commence; i!v." il.ire on which fishing is expected to commence; . .
the t;;:.;r}::ty (in k^} of each species of fish in the hold using the code mentioned in jîoini S uelow; i
CNE cric GI.V C>IL CNI CND CKA GKB CKC GLD EJK EJM FFB FFU
 1.3. At weekly intervals, commencing on the seventh day after the vessel first enter* the f.^h^g zone of ihc Member States:
(a) the information specified under point 1.4 below;
(h) the quantity (in kg) of each species caught since the previous transmission; (c) the ICES division or ICNAF zone in which the catches were made.
1.4. (a) The name, call sign, identification numbers and letters of the vessel and the name of its master;
<'!•>} the date, the time and the geographical position of the vessel. ihc scri.il numScr of the mc«.icc;
,J; iJ.'iitifuation of the type of message;
2.1. "fie information specified under point 1 shall be transmitted to the Commission of the ! ■jrnpo.in Communities in Brussels (telex address 21877 COMF.U) via one of the radio
listed under point 3 below and in the form specified under point 4.
2 2. if it i". for reasons of force majeure for the message to be transmitted by the •<!, it may be transmitted on the vessel's behalf by another vessel.
Call sign of radio station
Stonchaven CND X'ortvhcad CKA
CKC Land's End CLD
. I'ortn of communications.
Tr.tmmisMon of rhe information specified under point 1 shall take the form of mfuapci preii-ilcii by rhc words Tcchcur Brussels' and the information elements shall be given in the j*iilnv\ in;; nrJcr:
– the c<>«ie Tcihcur Brusscls"; ' – tunic of vessel;
– cxtcrn.il identification letters and numbers;
– serial number of the message for the voyage in question;
– indication of the type of message according to the following code: – message – when entering the Community zone: 'IN",
– message – when leaving the Community zone: 'OUT*,
– the geographical position;
– the ICFS division or ICNAF zone in which fishing is expected to commence; – the date on which fishing is expected to commence; .■
– the t;;:.-.n:i:y (in kj;} of each species of fish in the hold using the code mentioned in point 5 rclow; , i
 – :'-c <;j.:-r'rv ,in or cj^h species csughr since the previous transmission using the code nc;;sif»ncd in point 5 hclow;
– the 1CF.S division or ICNAF zone in which the catches were made;
– t!te ij'.Mntitv (in kg) of each species transferred to other vessels since the previous
– the n.irnc and call sign of the vessel to which the transfer was made;
– ii'i- <|n.innty tin kp) of each species landed in a port of the Community since the previous ( r .ris :. sissi<»n ; i
– njmc of the master, i
5. The c.Jo co he used to indicate the quantities of fish on board as. mentioned in point 4
– Q: i.irg (Nlolva molva), – R: Other,
. – T: Anchovy (Engraulis encrasicolus).
 Agreed Record of conclusion of Fishery consultations between Norway, S-.:oden and the European Economic Community, Brussels, 10–11 January 1979
1« A Norwegian delegation , headed by Mr. K. RAASOK, a Swedish U.J.oga'cicn , headed by Mr« L. - KANKSRZ and a Community delegation headed L;r I'-r. M. MARCUSSSi-!, tact in Brussels on 10-11 January 1979 to consult -v.-ivhin the fra^evzork of the Agreement between Denmark, Norway and Suoden concerning mutual fishing rights in Skagerrsk and Kattegat of 19 December 1966 on regulatory measures for fishing in Slcagerrak ajid Kattegat in 1979»
2. Tha seating in Brussels was a continuation of previous meetings in Oslo , Stockholm and Brussels . ,
I"., 1® Tha de1egationsagreed to recommend their respective authorities to adopt regulations to assure that fishing in 1979 be limited to the TAC'o mid quotas set out hereafter:
TAC 1979 Allocation to Allocation to Allocate
(l ) Area A: the area defined in art . 1 of the Agreement of 19. 12. 19oo Area 3: the area defined in art. 1 of the Agreement of 19.12.19oo
extended to the southern boundary of Kattegat defined as a straight -1 ine from Hasenjore Koved to Gniben Odde , from Korsha-~e to Spodsbjerg ar.d from Gillbjerg Hoved to Xuilen.
^2) Tnia cfuota might be increased to 1500 t if so requested by Xorway. The
iAvJ ia then increased to 15-000 t.
be increased to 750 t if eo request^ by frox'way. The 1AC ie then increased to 9«350 t.
(4) This quota does not include fjord herring,, which is caught between the Swedish frontier and the Lindesnas.
{5) This quota i:ight be increased to 47*500 t if so jpecruested by ESC, I'he TAG 13 t^0!& .increased to 77«500 t.
Tho quota referred to la peaegrepb I osy 1*3 ia tao following areas j ': .
«« vcss-ylo flying the flags of Beaaarlrj Sueaea and Uoruays anywhere in area A outside the coastal seas of ! 4" silos cf
' the other party;
-> vessels flying the flag of other Member States of the Community anywhere ia area A cutoi&e the coastal sense of
12 miles measured from the base-liaess of 'iJoruay end Sweden5 h) quotes -ox' are– Bs
– vessels flying the flag of Z>saisarle and Swedens
tsiyuhere ia the Skagerrak outsida the 4 miles aonea and la Kattegat outside the 3 miles soaes of the ether partye
«• vessels flying the flag of other Member States of the Coraauaity anywhere ia area B outside the 12 miles coastal zones measured from the base–lines of ft'orwsy cad Sweden|
– vessels flying the flag of Norway cniy ia area A outside the coasta! son© of 4 miles of the other party.
£22« The delegations agreed to recommend their.respective authorities »
. to adopt the following regulations ia respect of area As
!• Directed fishing for herring shall be prohibited from 1 January to 31 IIarc?i 1S79 and from 1 October to 31 Xteesrabor 1979<>
2* directed fishing for herring for purposes other than humaa coasumptioa shall be prohibited® '
3« The ui,~. of trawl sad purse seiae for the capture of pelagic
cpeciea £*<211 bo prohibited from Saturday midnight to Sunday ojdaijfr
IV. The parties will continue coi'iC;uita*iloas conoomiag tjia hereon!oatioa of itts»lat;ery ffis£su2-©s«
' Agreed record of conclusions' 'of fishery consultations
between Sweden - and] the European l&ononic Community , Gothentiurfr 1 -2' Fe bruary 1 979 > ■ 0 -- '
Pursuant to the Agreement oft. f i shecieS between the "and the Government, of Sweden signed on' 21 March . 19''*'
• .delegations-;frcn; the. 'two parties wet in Gothenhur'-; on 1-2 February". 1 9 3 to cohsnlt a -o-Jt their ' fishori e?; relations in-19';9>. , ' *'■/' ,
The moetinr; in Gothen' -ur -.j: was a continuation of previous . meetings in ^rusr.el s and .';tock*p61'r». . ■
The delegations agreed to recommend thexr respective
authorities the _ following arrangements s VI k«'* *
■' I Each party shall open for 1979 'the catch ouotas indicated hereunder for the other iri its respective1 fishery zoner:
(1) except ICEo arean ?4 and 25 ' •" <s&r.:
(2) subject to Q(in.iittialliinnflgr/fain- a.g^reement between the parties on certain measures for the purpose of furthering reproduction of salmon' in the Baltic * . '
'/. Quotas for Community , vessel s in the i-Jwedish fishery zone of the Baltic Sea south of 59°30'!T. ' '
ICEH division Quantity (tonnes)
 2. Quotas foi? Swediah vessels in the Community zone of t.be
Baltic Sea and the North Sea. ■
Plaice and other flatfish
Plue whiting Linrr
Whiting
(1) of which at least 2 250 t has to be takgn in sub-area IV north of 60 N and west of 2 T'!.
(2) north of 56 ?0*N. .
5.1 Each party shall adopt regulations to assure that
fishing in 1979 in the Kattegatt be limited to the T/IC ' n and quotas^ut hereafter and to allow access to vcapnb
. of the other party as set outAin subparagraph 3.2 .
Allocation to Sweden (t)
Allocation to iWO (t)
3»2 The quota5referred to in subparagraph 3.1 may be taken in the Kattegat by *
 vessels flying the flag of Denmark and Sweden anywhere outdid® the 3 miles zones of. the other party;
-vessels flying the flag of other Kemi er States of the Community anywhere outside the 1? miles coastal zone
measured from the ban/lines
Each party shall adopt regulations prohibiting the ,IPP of trawl 'and purse seine J^for the capture of
species ^. in the Kattegat from Friday midnight, to Sunday midnight.
Direoted fishing in the Kattegatt for herring for purposes other than human consumption is prohi bi .
Eaoh party shall issue to vessels of the other pr>rt..v for fishing the quotas referred \;o .in paragraph 3
the number of licenses set out hereafter and in
accordance with the following procedures } loid- oufr- he»ounriog«f «
For Swedish fishery in the EEC zone .
The Baltici
Cod and herring-fisheryi 75 licenses to be selected monthly out of a list of 1JO vessels
3almon: 6 licenses to be selected monthly out of n. list of 12 vessels .
■ The North seal
all species except lingt 21 licenses to be scloctod monthly out of a list of 50 vessels
The EEC fishery in the Swedish zonet The Baltic *
Cod , herring , sprat : 125 licenses to monthly out of a list of 400 vessels
" of Sweden.
he selected
Salmon: 35 licenses to be selected monthly out of a list of - 50 vessels . - _ .
The parties shall notify eachpt'ner of the vessels to "be
licensed' for fishing in the zone of the other party during
one month at . the latest on the first, day of the proceeding
The Swedish delegation informed the Community delegation of the " intention of the Swedish Govorment to maintain in force the .
prohibition on all fishix^gwith trawl and. purse–seine from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight within the 12 miles zone of Sweden in the Kattegat.
The Comunity delegation took note of this declaration. Gothenburg Februay 2, 1979
referat af konsultationerne (Agreed Record of the conclusions of the consul­ ... (1)._ ,. ....^^.
Land's End
 Agreed Record of conclusion of Fishery consultations between Norway, Sweden and the European Economic Community, Brussels, 10–11 January 1979
I, 1. A Norwegian delegation, headed by Mr. K. RAASOK, a Swedieh
<1;; legation , headed by Mr. L.-HANNERZ and a Community delegation headed by Kr. M. MARCUSSE2T, met in Brussels on 10–11 January 1979 to consult within the framework of the Agreement between Denmark , .Norway and Sweden concerning mutual fishing rights in Skagerrak and Kattegat of 19 December 1966 on regulatory measures for fishing in Skagerrak and Kattegat in 1979*
2. The meeting in Brussels was a continuation of previous meetings in Oalo , Stockholm and Brussels . ,
Ii'« 1. The delegations agreed to recommend their respective authorities to adopt regulations to assure that fishing in 1979 ke limited to tho TAC's and quotas set out hereafter:
j Haddock . I . Whiting
Area ! TAC 1979 Allocation to Allocation to Allocatii r.
extended to the southern boundary of Kattegat defined as a
' ' straight -line from Hasenjore Hoved to Gniben Odde, from Korshage
art . 1 of
Area A: the area defined in
Area B: the area defined in art. 1 of the Agreement of 19.12.19oo
to Spodsbjerg end from Gillbjerg Hoved to Kullen.
(2) This quota might be increased to I5OO t if so requested by Norway. Tho
TAC is then increased to 15-000 t.
(3) This quota might be increased to 750 t if so requested by Norway. The
TAC is then increased to 9«350 t.
(4) This quota does not include fjord herring, which is caught between
the Swedish frontier and the Lindesnas.
(5) This quota might be increased to 47*500 t if so requested by EEC. The TAC is then increased to 77*500 t»
Agreement of
 2o Thequotareferredtoinparagraph1mzjlisiciea, latho following areas 5 : •
«=» vessels flying the flags of Esniaark8 Sweden and Norways anywhere in area A outside the coastal sons cf.4"Ellsa ©f the other party3
«■> vessels flying the flag of other Member States of the Community anywhere in area A outside the coastal sone of 12 miles measured from the base-lines of Uort'ey &ad Swedes5
** vessels flying the flag of Xtemaark: end Swedens
anywhere ia the Skagerrak outsi.da the 4 miles ssones and is
Kattegat outside the 3 miles sones of the other party5
«« vessels flying the flag of other Member States of the Community anywhere in area B outeida the 12 miles coastal acmaa measured frora the bass–lines of Eforway cad Sweden|
- vessels flying the- flag of Horway caly in area A outside the coastal acne of 4 miles of the other party*
The delegations agreed to recommend their respective authorities ,4
to adopt the following regulations ia respect of area As
1* directed fishing for herring shall be prohibited from 1 January to 31 I-Iarch 1979 and from 1 October to 31 X»aceaber 1979o
2« directed fishing for herring for purposes other ■fchaa-huaaa consumption shall be prehibited» ■ '
3* The usj of tr&sji and purs© seine for the capture of pelagic
speciea shall ho prohibited from Saturday midnight "to Sunday aid&i&ht
 IV. The parties will contir.ua consultations ccnoamisg' th® haraonisaiion of othar regulatory measures*
Brussels, January 11th 1979
Quantity (tonnes)
' Agreed record of conclusions- of "fishery, consultations between iiweden - arid] the European l&oiiojiic Community , * .
. ' / Gotheni>urfr 1-2' February- 19.7 ? - .
Pursuant , to the A-'rreement oft. fi sherieS between the
and the Government' of Mwcl-fen signed on' 21 March . 1 9'.' "
• delegations fro'v the two parties met 'in Gothenliur'-; on
1 -'2 February". 1 9-3 to consul t' 'a*<out their fishori es relations in-19''*?*■ , ; ' *'■/'
The meetinr; . i n Gothen'-iir.? was a continii.ati'on of previous . meetings in - '^ruseels. and - Itcckboi-!.
The delegations -agreed to recoirsmend their respective
authorities the following arrangements : k
I Each party shall open for 1979 'the catch ouotas indicated hereunder for the- other iri its respective1 fishery soner:
'Quotas for Community, vessels in the brveoish fishery zone of the Baltic'Sea south of 59°30,1T. '
(l) except ICE3 areas ?4 and 25 "
(2) subject to (initialli np;(an- agreement '.etween the
parties on certain measures for the purpose of furthering reproduction of salmon- in the . Baltic *
 2• Quota3 for Swedish vessels in the Community zone of the
Baltic Sea and the North Sea. '
Plaice and . otherflatfish IV
Blue whiting-
Ling whiting
Whiting Plaice
• Allocation to Sweden (t) -
Allocation to 11.-',G (t)
Quantity (tonnes)
(1) of which at least 2 250Qt has to be taken in - sub-area IV .north of 60 N and west of- 2 S.
3.1 Each party shall adopt regulations to assure that fishing in 1979 in the Kattegatt be limited to the TAC's and quotas^ut hereafter and to allow access to vessels
• of the other party as set out-vin subparagraph 3*2.
5.2 f?he quotasreferred to in subparagraph 3-1 may be taken in the Kattegat by:
« vessels flying the flag1 of Denmark and Sweden anywhere outside t'no 3 miles zones of. the other party ;
.-• vessels flying the flag of other Member States of the
Community anywhere outside the 12 miles coa3'tal zone measured from the baselines" of Sweden.
II 1 . Each party jshall . adopt regulations prohibiting the use of trawl 'and purse seine J^for the capture of peln.ric
species£_in the Kattegat from Friday midnight to Sunday midnight. . '
2. Bireoted fishing in the Kattegatt for herring* for purposes other than human consumption is prohibited .
Eaoh party shall issue to vessels of the other party for fishing1 the quotas referred \;o in paragraph I the number of licenses set out hereafter and jn
accordance with the following procedures « l-a+4– .-/ • •
1 .. For Swedish fishery in the EEC zone .
The Baltic:
Cod and herring- fishery : 75 licenses monthly out of a list of M 50 vessels
to be
Salmon: 6 licenses to be selected monthly out of a • listof12vessels. •
The Sfcrth sea :
all species except ling: 21 licenses to be selected
monthly out of a list of 50 vessels
The EEC fishery in the Swedish zone : The Baltic:
Cod , herring , sprat : 125 licenses to monthly out of a list of 400 vessels
Salmon: 35 licenses to be selected monthly out of a list of - 50 vessels' .
The parties shall notify eachother of the vessels to be licensed' for fishing in the zone of the other party during one month at . the latest on the first, day of the proceeding month : '
The Swedish delegation informed the Community delegation of the ' intention of the Swedish Govorment to maintain in force the .
prohibition on alL fishiigwith trawl and purse-seine from \••
Friday midnight to. Sunday midnight within the 12 miles zone of Sweden in the Kattegat. ; . . v ■
The Comuni.ty delegation took note of. this declaration.
