 DRAFT Recommendation for a Decision
"by the Council
amending its Decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations with Greece with a view to concluding a textile arrangement in 1980.
1. TheCouncilmeetingof20November1979authorized,theCommissionto open negotiations with Greece with a view to concluding an arrangement for textiles in 1980.
2. The Commission has pursued negotiations, in consultation with the 113 Committor; (Textiles)withintheframeworkofCouncildirectives.
3. Atthisstageofthenegotiations,thesedirectives,andinparticular their economic content , would not appear in certain respects to be capable of securing the agreement of Greece.
4. TheCommissionaccordinglyrecommendstheCounciltoadopt,on
18 December 1979> "the annexed draft, amending these directives in such a way as to arrive at a compromise acceptable to Greece, paving the way to a positive outcome to the negotiations.
Recommendation for a Council Decision amending its Decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations with Greece with a view to concluding a textile arrangement in I98O
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113,
Having regard to the Commission's Recommendation,
Whereas the Council adopted decisions on commercial policy at its meeting on 19 and 20 December 19771 \ '
Whereas Greece is one of the major supplier countries to the Community of most of the textile products subject to global import ceilings;
Whereas the pending accession of Greece to the Community necessitates that the Greek textile industry be integrated into the Community rapidly and in an orderly manner;
The Directives set out in the annex to the Council Decision of
20 November 1979» authorizing the Commission to open negotiations with Greece with a view to concluding a textile arrangement in I98O, shall be amended in accordance with attached annex.
For the Council
Economic content
(1) Possible clause for revising September levels in the light of utilisation of global ceilings
Sub–limit of 4 500 tonnes for counts above 40 nM. Sub-limit of 65O tonnes for denim fabric . Sub-limit of 1 650 tonnes for denim fabric .
Sub-limit of Sub-limit of
750tonnes for woven fabrics other than unbleached. 920 tonnes for denim fabric .
II TEXT Withdrawal of
administrative cooperation in the case of categories 16 , 26 , 27 f 28 , 31
Subject: Draft Recommendation for a Council Decision amending its- Decision of 20 November 1979 authorising the Commission to
open negotiations with Greece with a view to concluding a textile arrangement for 1980.
The draft recommendation in question is attached.
It is clear from the negotiations conducted by the Commission on the basis of directives issued by the Council on 20 November 1979 that these directives have proved inadequate in certain respects for the.- purposes of securing the agreement of Greece.
At the time of presentation of the initial directives, which had to be approved without delay by the Council to allow negotiations to be opened quickly, the point was stressed that gin agreement was unlikely to be reached without these directives "being widened in scope.
This draft amendment has been prepared taking account as closely as possible of views obtained from all interested parties in Greece as regards their minimum requirements. It also represents, in certain cases, the outside limit acceptable to Member States beyond which, leaving aside the fact that an undesirable precedent . would be created, the advantages accruing from an arrangement with Greece would not be worth negotiating.
This draft will be firmly contested by certain Member States but it could, eventually, find acceptance if presented above all as a final attempt. It would appear that there is a reasonable prospect of Greece adopting a positive stance on the basis of these new terms.
Nevertheless, in the contrary case, the Community could place the
major responsibility at the door of the Greeks by referring to the efforts which the Community is disposed to make which are considerable, having regard to the very strict directives and criteria imposed by its trade policy for textiles.
( presented by the Commission to the Council )
1. TheCouncilmeetingof20November19T9authorizedtheCommissionto
open negotiations with Greece with a view to concluding an arrangement for textiles in 1980.
2. The Commission has pursued negotiations, in consultation with the 113 Committjc- (Textiles) within the framework of Council directives.
3. Atthisstageofthenegotiations,thesedirectives,andinparticular their economic content, would not appear in certain respects to be capable of securing the agreement of Greece.
4. The Commission accordingly recommends the Council to adopt, on
18 December 1979j "the annexed draft, amending these directives in such a way as to arrive at a compromise acceptable to Greece, paving the way to a positive outcome to the negotiations.
 Recommendation for a Council Decision amending its Decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations with Greece with a view to concluding a textile arrangement in I9S0
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113,
Having regard to the Recommendation from the Commission,
WhereastheCounciladopteddecisionsoncommercialpolicy atitsmeetings held on 19 and 20 December 197? ;
Whereas Greece is one of the major supplier countries to the Community of most of the textile products subject to global import ceilings;
Whereas the pending accession of Greece to the Community requires that
the Greek textile industry be integrated into the Community rapidly and in an orderly manner:
The directives set out in the Annex to the Council Decision of
20 November 1979> authorizing the Commission to open negotiations with
Greece with a view to the conclusion of a textile arrangement in 1980 are hereby amended in accordance with attached Annex.
Brussels. For the Council
Withdrawal of administrative cooperation in the case of categories 16, 26, 27, 28, 31.
tons for polyester-bomuld s
