I. Directions générales responsables
I. Directions générales responsables
PT-pg^ntatiion of a request
Inanotedated22January1980, theMoroccan,authoritiesmadearequestfor
a derogation relating to their production of carpets falling within Tariff Heading58.01, foraperiodof5yearsandinrespectofanannualquantity of2,000tonnes. ThisrequestistoallowMoroccanindustrytoimproveits production structure of yarns of a calibre suitable for the production of cottageindustrycarpets, whicharenotverywidelyavailableintheCommunity.
The Moroccan side feels that this 5 year duration is justified by the time necessary to implement investment projects under consideration.
Opinion of the Services of the Commission
It would seem to be difficult to agree to the volume requested in . its original form when one takes account of the consequences that such a derogation could have in comparable sectors of production in certain regions of the Community. As a compromise an annual quantity of 1,500 tonnes would appear to be the maximumthattheCommunitycouldaccept. Asregardsthedurationofthe derogation it would not seem opportune to provide for a duration superior to that provided for in such cases under the Lome Convention (two years).
derogating from certain provisions concerning the definition of the concept of originating products contained in the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco
Having regard to the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco signed in Rabat on 27 April 1976 (1), hereafter referred to as the "Cooperation Agreement",
Whereas Article 28 of Protocol No 1 of the Cooperation Agreement states that the Cooperation Council may make any necessary changes to Protocol No 2 for the application of the provisions of this Protocol and their economic effect;
Whereas in order to take account of the special situation in Morocco and to
enable the industrial sector concerned to adapt their production to the
conditions required by the Protocol concerning the definition of the concept
oforiginatingproductsannexedtothesaidAgreement, provisionshouldbemade for the benefit of this state for a derogation from certain provisions concerning
the definition set out in the said Protocol ;
By way of derogation from the Protocol concerning the definition of originating
productsandmethodsofadministrativecooperation, annexedtotheCooperation
Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco
and subject to the conditions set out in the following Articles, the provisions of List A annexed to the Protocol concerning products of heading 58.01 shall
be completed by tha following footnote :
" (3) For carpets of this heading which are handmade the use of non-originating
products of headings 53.06 and 55.05 is allowed.
OJ No L 264 of 27.9.1978, p.2
The derogation referred to in Article 1 concerns the following amounts exported from the Kingdom of Morocco during the periods hereafter :
- from 1980 to 1981 : 1,500 tonnes - from 1981 to 1982 : 1,500 tonnes
The customs authorities of the Kingdom of Morocco shall make the arrangements
necessary to control quantitatively the export of products referred to in Article 1 and shall communicate to the Commission every three months the
quantity of products in respect of which Movement Certificates EUR.l have been issued on the basis of the present Regulation.
The Kingdom of Morocco, the Member States and the Community shall each take the measures required to implement this Decision.
TheDecisionshallenterintoforceon 1.10.1980
It shall apply until 1.10.1982.
For the EEC-Morocco Cooperation Council
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No. /80 of
concerning the application of Decision No. of the EEC-Morocco Cooperation Council of derogating from certain provisions concerning the definition of the concept of originating products contained in the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the EEC-Morocco Cooperation Council set up under the Cooperation Agree­ ment between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco signed in Rabat on 27 April 1976 (1) adopted pursuant to Article 28 of Protocol No 2 of this Agreement, Decision No. derogating from the definition of the concept of originating products of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco;
Whereas it is necessary, in accordance with Article 44 (2) of the Agreement to take the measures required to implement that Decision;
Decision No. of the EEC-Morocco Cooperation Council shall apply in the Community .
The text of the Decision is annexed to this Regulation.
(1) QJ No. L 264 of 27.9.1978, p.2
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities .
It shall apply from 1.10.1980 to 1.10.1982.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, ' For the Council The President.
COM(80)463 final Brussels / 28 July 1980
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC )
concerning the application of Decision No. of the EEC-Morocco Cooperation Council of derogating from certain provisions concerning the definition of the concept of originating products contained in the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic
Community and the Kingdom of Morocco
DRAFT DECISION OF THE EEC-MOROCCO COOPERATION COUNCIL derogating from certain provi sions concerning the definition of the
concept of originating products contained in the Cooperation Agree­ ment between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of
(submitted to the Council by theCommission)
Présentation of a recruest
Inanotedated22January1980, theMoroccan,authoritiesmadearequestfor a derogation relating to their production of carpets falling within Tariff Heading58.01, foraperiodof5yearsandinrespectofanannualquantity of2,000tonnes. ThisrequestistoallowMoroccanindustrytoimproveits production structure of yarns of a calibre suitable for the production of
cottage industry carpets, which are not very widely available in the Community. The Jtoroccan side feels that' this 5 year duration is justified by the time
necessary to implement investment projects under consideration. Opinion of the Services of the Commission
It would seem to be difficult to agree to the volume requested in its original form when one takes account of the consequences that such a derogation could have in comparable sectors of production in certain regions of the Community. As a compromise an annual, quantity of 1,500 tonnes would appear to be the maximum that the Community could accept. As regards the duration of the■ derogation it would not seem opportune to provide for a duration superior to that provided for in such cases under the Lome Convention (two years). .
 Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
concerning the application of Decision No. of the EEC-Morocco Cooperation Council of derogating from certain provisions concerning the defirtition of the concept of originating products contained in the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco
Having regarfl to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the EEC-Morocco Cooperation Council set up under the Cooperation Agree­ ment between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco signed
in Rabat on 27 April 1976' (1) has adopted, pursuant to Article 23 of Protocol No 2 of such Agreement,, Decision No. derogating from certain provisions concernii the definition of the concept of originating products contained in the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco;
Whereas it is necessary, j.n accordance with Article 44 (2) of the said Agreement, tc take the measures required to implement that Decision;
Decision No. of the EEC-Morocco Cooperation Council shall apply in the Community .
The text of the Decision is annexed to this Regulation.
(1) OJ No. L 264 of 2t.^.1978, p.2
Ihis Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities .
If shall apply from 1 October 1980 until 30 September 1982.
Ihis Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President
derogating from certain provisions concerning the definition of the concept of originating products contained in the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco
Having regard to the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community
and the Kingdom of Morocco signed in Rabat on 27 April 1976 (1), hereinafter
referred to as the "Cooperation Agreement", r
Whereas Article 28 of Protocol No 2 of the Cooperation Agreement states that the Cooperation Council may make any necessary changes to Protocol No 2 for the application of the provisions of that Protocol and their economic effect;
Whereas in order to take account of the special situation in Morocco and to enable the industrial sectors concerned to adapt their production to the conditions required by the Protocol concerning the definition of the concept
of originating products annexed to the said Agreement, provision should be made for the benefit of this State for a derogation from certain provisions concerning the definition set out in the said Protocol ;
By way of derogation from the Protocol concerning the definition of originating products and methods of administrative cooperation, annexed to the Cooperation Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Kingdom of Morocco, and subject to the conditions set out in the following Articles, the provisions of List A annexed to the said Protocol concerning products of heading 58.01 shall be supplemented by the following footnote :
" (3) For carpets of this heading which are handmade the use of non-originating products of headings 53.06 and 55.05 is allowed. "
OJ No L 264 of 27.9.1978, p.2
The derogation referred to in Article 1 shall concern the following amounts exported from the Kingdom of ,vjorocco during the following periods : '
- 1980 to 1981 : 1,500 tonnes ~ " 1981 to 1982 : 1,500 tonnes
Hie customs authorities of the Kingdom of Morocco shall make the arrangements necessary to control quantitatively the export of products referred to in Article 1 and shall communicate to the Commission every three months the
quantity of products in respect' of which Movement Certificates EUR.l have been
issued on the basis of this Decision.
The Kingdom of Morocco, the Member States and the Community shall each take the measures required to implement this Decision.
Ihe Decision shall enter into force 1 October 1V80.
It shall apply until 30- September 1982.
Done at Brussels For the EEC-Morocco Cooperation .■, Council
