Szomba thelyi Gyàra
on the list of establishments in the Hungarian People s
Republic approved for the purpose of importing fresh meat into the Community .
( Communication from the Commission to Mr DALSAGER )
In application of the Council Directive of 12 December 1971 » "the Commission must draw up a list of establishments (abattoirs, cutting plants, cold stores) approved for export to the Community of fresh meat of bovine animals, swine, sheep, goats and of domestic solipeds.
For the purpose of drawing up this list, a Community mission visited Hungary during the months of November and December 1981 and, on the basis of information gathered on-the-spot, it is proposed to draw up a list of establish­
ments approved for the Community as a whole (having regard to the animal health provisions adopted elsewhere, the intrar-Community provisions in force for Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom for Northern Ireland as well as provisions concerning fields not yet covered by Community rules).
It consists of a first list which must be very soon supplemented following a new inspection mission made at the request of the Third Country conaerned, involving establishments which this country regards as being able to conform with Community provisions in a short time.
The Commission submitted the attached draft Decision to the Standing Veterinary Committee which Was not in a position to deliver a favourable opinion. The Federal Republic of Germany voted against because it estimated, in view of the results of the last inspection carried out in Argentina during the month of March 1982, that priority must be given to the decision concerning this country; it is correct that a draft of this type has already been drawn up but, because of recent events, the services of the Commission have not been in a position to commence and complete in
due time, with the Argentinian authorities, the information procedure which it is normal to follow before taking a decision concerning a third country. The United Kingdom abstained estimating that, in this field, all application decisions of the Directive 72/462/EEC would prejudice the decisions which the Council has not yet taken on the modifications which the Commission proposed to make to this same Directive. Denmark also abstained. The other delegations delivered favourable opinions.
The Commission hereby transmits the attached proposal to the Council in application of the procedure of the Standing Veterinary Committee laid down in Article 29 of Directive 72/462/EEC.
on the list of establishments in the Hungarian People s Republic
approved for the purposes of importing fresh meat into the Community
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Directive 72/462/EEC of 12 December 1972 on health and veterinary inspection problems upon importation of bovine animals and swine and fresh meat from third countries ( 1 ) , and in par­ ticular Articles 4(1) and 18(1)(a) and (b) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal of the Commission,
Whereas establishments in third countries cannot be authorized to export fresh meat to the Community unless they satisfy the general and special conditions laid down in Directive 72/462/EEC;
Whereas the Hungarian People's Republic has forwarded, in accordance with Article 4(3) of Directive 72/462/EEC, a list of the establishments authorized to export to the Community;
Whereas Community on-the-spot visits have shown that the hygiene standards of many' of these establishments are sufficient and they may therefore be entered on a first list, established according to Article 4(1) of the
said Directive, of establishments from which importation of fresh meat
may be authorised;
Whereas the case of the other establishments proposed by Hungary must be reexamined on the basis of additional information regarding their
hygiene standards and their ability to adapt quickly to the Community legislation ;
Whereas, in the meantime and so as to avoid any abrupt interruption of existing trade flows, these establishments may be authorized temporarily to continue their exports of fresh meat to those Member States prepared to accept them;
Whereas it will therefore be necessary to reexamine and, if necessary, amend this Decision in the light of measures taken to this end and improvements made;
Whereas it should be recalled that imports of fresh meat are also sub­ ject to "other Community veterinary legislation, particularly as regards health protection requirements, including the special provisions for Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom;
Whereas the conditions of importation of fresh meat from establishments *
appearing on the annexed list of the present Decision remain subject to provisions laid down elsewhere and to the general provisions of the Treaty; whereas in particular, the importation from third countries and the re-exportation to other Member States of certain categories of meat, such as meat weighing less than 3 kg, or meat containing residues of certain substances which are not yet covered by harmonized Community rules, remain subject to the health legislation of the importing Member State;'
Whereas , since the Standing Veterinary Committee has not given its assent ,
the Commission is unable to adopt the provisions it had envisaged on this **
matter under the procedure provided for in Article 29 of the Directive refer red above ,
The establishments in the Hungarian People's Republic listed in the Annex are hereby approved for the import of fresh meat into the Community pursuant to the said Annex .
Imports from those establishments shall remain subject to the Community veterinary provisions laid down elsewhere, and, in particular those concerning health protection requirements.
Member States shall prohibit imports of fresh meat coming from establishments other than those listed in the Annex.
This prohibition , however, shall not apply until 1 April 1983 to establishments which are not listed in the Annex but which have
been officially approved and proposed by the Hungarian authorities as of'15 November 1981 pursuant to Article 4(3) of Directive 72/462/EEC, unless a decision is taken to the contrary, in accordance with
Article 4(1 ) of the abovementioned Directive, before 1 April
The Commission shall forward the list of these establishments to the Member States.
This Decision shall enter into force on 1 October 1982.
This Decision shall be reviewed and if necessary amended before 1 March 1983 .
This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels ,
For the
A. Slaughterhouses and cutting premises Establishment No Establishment
Slaughterhouses
A. Slaughterhousesand cutting premises
 B. Slaughterhouses
Szo"iba thely
Proposal for a COUNCIL DECISION
on the list of establishments in the Hungarian People's Republic approved for the purpose of importing fresh meat into the Community
( submitted to the Council by the Commission )
COM(82)518 final. Brüssels - 6 August 1982
In application of the Council Directive of 12 December 1971 > the Commission must draw up a list of establishments (abattoirs, cutting plants, cold stores) approved for export to the Community of fresh meat of bovine animals, swine, sheep, goats and of domestic solipeds.
For the purpose of drawing up this list, a Community mission visited Hungary during the months of November and December 1981 and, on the basis of information gathered on–the–spot, it is proposed to draw up a list of establish­
ments approved for the Community as a whole (having regard to the animal health provisions adopted elsewhere, the intra-Community provisions in force for Denmark,
Ireland and the United Kingdom for Northern Ireland as well as provisions concerning
fields not yet covered by Community rules). I
It consists of a first list which must be very soon supplemented following a now inspection mission made at the request of the Third Country concerned, involving establishments which this country regards as being able to conform with Community provisions in a short time.
; The Commission Submitted the attached draft Decision to the Standing Veterinary Committee which was not in a position to deliver a favourable opinion. The Federal Republic of Germany voted against because it estimated, in view of the results of the last inspection carried out in Argentina during the month of March 1982, that priority must be given to the decision concerning this country; it is correct that a draft of this type has already been drawn up but, because of recent events, the services of the Commission have not been in a position to commence and complete in due time, with the Argentinian authorities, the information procedure which it is
normal to follow before taking a decision concerning a third country. The United Kingdom abstained estimating that, in this field, all application decisions of the Directive 72/462/EEC would prejudice.the decisions which the Council has not yet taken on the modifications which the Commission proposed to make to this same Directive. Denmark also abstained. The other delegations delivered favourable opinions.
The Commission hereby transmits the attached proposal to the Coijpicil in application of the procedure of the Standing Veterinary Committee laid down in Article 29 of Directive 72/462/EEC.
on the List of establishments in the Hungarian People's Republic approved for the purposes of importing fresh meat into the Community
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Directive 72/462/EEC of 12 December 1972 on health and veterinary inspection problems upon importation of bovine animals and swine and fresh meat from third countries ( 1 ) , and in par­ ticular Articles 4(1) and 18(1)(a) and (b) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas establishments in third countries cannot be authorized to export fresh meat to the Community unless they satisfy the general and special conditions laid down in Directive 72/462/EEC;
Whereas the Hungarian People's Republic has forwarded, in accordance with Article 4(3) of Directive 72/462/EEC, a list of the establishments authorized to export to the Community;
Whereas ' Communi ty on-the-spot visits have shown that the hygiene standards of many of these establishments are sufficient and they may therefore be entered on a first list, drawn up according to Article 4(1) of the
said Directive, of establishments from which importation of fresh meat
may be authorised;
Whereas the case of the other establishments proposed by Hungary must be reexamined on the basis of additional information regarding their hygiene standards and their ability to adapt quickly to the Community rules ,
Whereas, in the meantime and so as to avoid any abrupt interruption of existing trade flows, these establishments may be authorized temporarily to continue their exports of fresh meat to those Member States prepared to accept them;
Whereas it wi ll - therefore be necessary to reexamine arvd, if necessary, amend this Decision in the light of measures taken to this end and improvements made ;
Whereas it should be recalled that imports of fresh meat are also sub­ ject to other Community veterinary 'rules, particularly as regards health protection requirements, including the special provisions for Denmark, Ireland and the United Kingdom;
for the
Whereas the conditions / importation of fresh meat from establishments
appearing on the lis*- annexed to this Decision remain subject to provisions laid down elsewhere and to the general provisions of the Treaty; whereas in particular, the importation from third countries and the re-exportation to other Member States of certain categories of meat, such as cuts' weighing less than 3 kg, or meat containing residues of certain substances which are not yet covered by harmonized Community rules, remain subject to the health legislation of the importing Member State ;
Whereas, since the Standing Veterinary Committee has not given a favourable opinion, ι
the Commission is unable to adopt the provisions it had envisaged on this matter under the procedure provided 'for in Article 29 of the Directive refer­ red
The establishments in the Hungarian People's Republic listed in the « ,, ,, ofimporting
Annex are hereby approved for the purposes ' / fresh meat into the Community pursuant to the said Annex .
Imports from those establishments shall remain subject to the Community veterinary provisions laid down elsewhere, and in particular those concerning health protection requirements.
Member States shall prohibit imports of fresh meat coming from establishments other than those listed in the Annex.
This prohibition , however, shall not apply until 1 April 1983 to establishments which are not listed in the Annex but which have
been officially approved and proposed by the Hungarian authorities as of 15 November 1981 pursuant to Article 4(3) of Directive 72/462/EEC, unless a decision is taken to the contrary, in accordance with
Article 4(1 ) of the abovementioned Directive, before 1 April
The Commission shall forward the list of these establishments to the Member States .
This Decision shall enter into force on 1 October 1982. i
This Decision shall be reviewed and if necessary amended before 1 March 1983 . .
This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels ,
For the
A. Slaughterhouses and cutting premises Establishment No Establishment .
B. S laughterhouses
II . PIGMEAT A. Slaughterhouses and cutting premises
 B. Slaughterhouses
