In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
- "Skimmed milk powder destined for exportation conforming with ' Regulation (EEC) No /74" . - .
R3GULÀTI0N (lEC') No /74 OF TH_i CQEI1ISSION of
laying down conditions for the sale for export of skinned milk powder held by intervention agencies and concerning the adjustment of refunds fixed in advance for skimmed milk powder not coming from intervention stocks
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European .Economic Community;
Having regard to Council Regulation (.J.ZC) No 804/68^^ of 27 June 1963 on the commort organization of the market in milk and mil", products , as
last amended, by Regulation (ULC) Ho 662/74 2) j and in particular Article 7 ( 5) j "the first sub-paragraph of Article 17(4 ) and Article 28 thereof ;
Whereas large quantities of skimmed milk powder are currently hold in public storage i : the Community; whereas steps should be taken to sell these stocks where outlets for the product exist;
V.'hcreas Commission Regulation (ZLDC) No 2609/74^"^ of 14 October 1974 on the sole for export of skimmed milk powder held by intervention agencies authorized Community exporters to obtain supplies of skimmed milk powder from intervention agencies during the month of October 1974 for export
in performance of long-term contracts ; whereas , since the situation on the world market is more or less unchanged, that measure should be extended;
Nhoreas experience has shown that some provisions of the abovementioncd Regulation should bo amended , particularly as regards the selling price , the final dates for payments and for taking delivery and the advance fixing
of the refund;
 Whereas this Regulation entitles exporters who receive their stocks from intervention agencies to a guaranteed, price level beyond the date on which any amendment of the intervention price is effected; whereas means should accordingly be sought whereby exporters of skimmed milk powder who obtain suppl£es"~6n • the market should also be entitled to a certain guarantee concerning export conditions; whereas":sub-paragraph -(a), of the second paragraph of Article^5(3) of Regulation (HX) IIo 876/68^^ of the"'Council of 28 June 19^3 laying down general rules for granting exports refunds on milk and milk products and criteria for fixing the amount of ouch refunds ,
as last amended by Regulation (S3C) No 2429/72
fixed in advance may be adjusted when intervention prices are amended; whereas it is appropriate to lay down recourse to this possibility in taking account of the present market situation which allows as from now such an adjustment;
"vhereas the Management Committee for liilk and Ililk Products has not delivered an Opinion within the time limit set by its chairman,
1. The intervention agencies shall offer for sa,le, on the terms set out below, skimmed milk powder bought in as provided in Article 7 of Regulation (jUC) No 804/68 and placed in storage after 31 Harch 1974 but before 1 September 1974 »
2. However, the total quantity of skimmed milk powder as specified in Article 1 sold by any one intervention agency may in no case exceed
5Ofj of the quantity held by that agency a,t the date of entry into force of this Regulation.
3. The contract of sale must be'concluded. no;t later than 31 December 1974-
, provides that refunds
 The (-.)
slciiamec milk powder shall "be sola:
ex storage depot at a price equal to the buying-in price applied by the relevant intervention agency at the time. i:hen the contract is concluded, plus 1.5 UA/lOO kg;
in lots of 5i000 metric tons or more;
to purohaccrs who
- can produce evidence of a contract concluded on or after
7 October 1974 under which they have undertaken to deliver
to a third country indicated in the contract over a period exceeding five months a quantity of not less than 5»000 metric tons of skimmed milk powder;
- can produce evidence of having lodged an application for an
export licence valid for eight months and for advance fixing
of tho refund for the country of destination specified in the
contract referred to in the first indent and in respect of the quantity of skimmed, milk powder to be purchased;
- give an undertaking that they will, under the abovementioned export licence and in performance of tho contract referred to in the first indent , export the quantity of skimmed milk powder purchased ;
in packaging marked in letters at least 2 cm high with one or more of the following endorsements:
2. The sale by the intervention agency of the skimmed milk powder shall
be subject to the provision of the contract of sale , of
The security shall take the of a cheque made out to the satisfying the requirements
by the purchaser, on on before conclusion a security amounting to 10 UA/lOO kg.
form, as the I'ember State chooses, either intervention agency or of a guarantee laid down by the llember State concerned.
1. The purchaser shall take over the skimmed milk powder within the following time limits, reckoned from the end of the month in which the contract of sale is concluded :
(a) three months, as regards half the qudntity purchased'," (b) six months , as regards the remainder.
The purchaser may take delivery of each half in instalments while respecting tho above tims limits.
2. lixcept in cases of force majeure, if the buyer fails to take over the skimmed milk powder within the periods specified in paragraph 1 he shall pay the storage Costs incurred in respect of the remaining quantities
by the intervention agency from the day on which the contract of sale we,s concluded until the duy on which delivery ie taken. Such costs shall be calculated at a flat rate of 0.029 UA per 100 kg per day of storage.
 Ucfore "taking delivery of any quantity, the purchaser:
(a) shall p-^- the intervention agency for the quantity in question,
(b) shall, -where appropriate, p?y storage costs as provided in paragraph 2. •
Vlhfcn the conditions set out in paragraph 3 have been satisfied, the intervention agency shall issue a removal order indicating:
(a) the quantity in respect of which those conditions have been satisfied,
(b) the storage depot or depots
(c) the final dates pursuant to of the skimmed miik powder,
(d) where appropriate, the date to in paragraph 2 have been question.
where the quantity in question is stored, paragra/phs 1 and 6 for talcing delivery
up to which the storage costs referred paid in respect of the quantity in
if, at the time of taking delivery, the skimmed milk powder purchased has been in store for more than six months , the intervention agency may ,, if the purchaser so requests, substitute for the quantity outstanding
an equivalent quantity which has been in store for loss than six months.
jJjccept in cases of force majeure, if the; buyer fails to take over the skimmed milk powder within eight months , reckoned from the end of the month in which the contract of sale with the intervention agency is concluded, the contract shall bo 'terminated in respect of outstanding quantities .
In cases of force majeure, the intervention agency shall determine the measures it considers necessary in the light of the circumstances invoked. .
Where an intervention agency accepts a case of force majeure the liember State to which it belongs shall immediately.notify this to the Commission which shall inform the other liember States.
Prom the time of its removal from store until it leaves the geographical territory of the Community the skimmed milk powder shall be pla,ced under customs control or under an administrative control offering equivalent safeguards .
Customsexportformalitiesshallbecompletedinthe ember.-Statoofsal
The security provided for in Article 2(2) shall be forfeit in respect of those quantities in respect of which the contract of sale is terminated pursuant to Article 3(6).
Moreover, except in case of force majeure, the security shall be dischar only in respect of those quantities in respect of which the purchaser furnishes proof of export in accordance with the third indent of Article 2(l)(c). •
This proof shall bo furnished as follows:
(a) where the product leaves 'the geographical territory of the Community from the territory of the Member State of sale, by production of the customs document attesting the departure and specifying that the product was exported under this Regulation; or
where the product leaves the geographical territory of the Community from the territory of a Ilembcr State other than the Member State of sale, by production of the control copy provided for in Article 1 of Régulation (:SC) Mo, 2315/59.
Sections 101, 103 and 104 of the control copy shall be completed. Section 104 shall be completed by deleting as necessary and entering against the second indent one of the endorsements listed in
Article 2(l)(d) of this Regulation; and
the provisions of Article 5(3) of Regulation No 1041/67/3^0 shall apply by analogyf
(b) by production of the documents referred to in Article 8(l) of Regulation No IO41/67/-HC proving that the quantities concerned have in fact been imported into the third country in question.
Uhere the intervention price for skimmed milk powder is amended for the 1975/ 1976 milk year, refunds fixed in advance, for a period exceeding 60 days, prior to 1 J?,nuary 1975 respect of products falling within subheading 04.02 A II (b) 1 of the Common Customs Tariff shall be adjusted accordingly. However a refund fixed in advance under the second indent of Article 2(l)(c) or for exports in the framework of Regulation (SEC) No 2609/74 shall not
be subject to any adjustment within the meaning of Article 5(3) of Regulation (3CC) No 876/68.
The I.ember States shall inform the Commission forthwith of the quantities
of skimmed milk powder in respect of which contracts of sale have been concludedbytheinterventionagencyunderthisRegulation, indicating
for each quantity the country of destination and the delivery period prescribed by the contract referred to in the first indent of Article 2(l)(c).
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Commission
