In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
cinq sociétés américaines : Standard Qil Company of New Jersey
British Pëtroleum Company (B. P. ).
16 is 3,. r"i » -js.jj1
Sehleawif-Ko1cteiη 3.550 3.550
Saai-land Saui'lr-nd-Raff. G.m.b.H.
Win· Bnggc and Sons Ltd·
t or ;
Gasoil , dieseloil , fuel oil (distillats rayens
 Sow /Acs ra/souc cU scc.fcr ytthbiciitiC yiivcoj* cUt pv;i » 't-j oas hAU\Ji'
Essence super Dieseloil / Gasoil Fuel léger
in tf 1971/1972 1972/ 1973 1973/ 1974
tf tf
tf tf
tf tf
-92 -2* tf -8tf 31Î tf tf* 15*
Gotty Oil Italiana
Berry Wißglne and Co. Ltd·
British Petroleum Co. Ltd. Shell U.K. Ltd.
Hin. Brig^o and Sons Ltd.
Irland Dänemark
Irland panemark
Belgien Luxemburg Ver.Königr. Irland Dänemark
Irland -1572
Art des Konzessions- für Partizipationsöl "posted ol/Partizi- Durchschnitts- Kohols öls Bridging Phase-in price" pationsol kosten
1 his 11
cinque americane - Standard Oil Company of New Jersey (Esso o Exxon), Texaco Inc. (Texaco), Gulf Oil Corporation (Gulf), Standard Oil Company of California (Chevron) e Mobil Oil Corpo­ ration (Mobil) - e due europee, Royal Dutch Shell (Shell) e British Petroleum Company (B.P.).
Font* i "The Petroleus Ecouosist",
Deuxooho Shell A.G.
Mii.oi'aiüiwerke Feine Viuterchall A.G, Wintershall Α·0· L'rdulwerko Frida A.G·
Ootty Oil Italiana
Win, Briggs and Sone Ltd·
Stanlow Shollliaven Tueeport Hoythnm
riscal .
; x^wt's ! ~rx
(Esso of Exxon), Texaco Inc. (Texaco), Gulf Oil Corporation (Gulf), Standard Oil Company of California (Chevron) en Mobil Oil Corporation
(Mobil) - en twee Europese : Royal Dutch Shell (Shell) en British Petroleum Company (BP).
(VS), The Burmah Oil Company Ltd.(VK) en Philips Petroleum Company (VS).
Bron : "The Petroleua Economist", aei 1973, 1974» 1975*
Kiiiei'altiiwGrke Peine Wnvlerchall A.G. Wintershall A.G* KrdUluerko Fri ci α A.G·
Deutsche the 11 A.G· Occidental Ofcl G.m.b.H. Fiiui liituuiomierka G.m.b.H. VüLA-Cueaio A.G.
Shell It .
Sarom Ravenna
Getty Oil Italiana
Britiah Petroleum Co.Ltd· Shell U.K. Ltd.
Burma Oil Trading Ltd. Berry Wiggins and Co. Ltd«
Win. Briggs and Sone Ltd.
Ierland Irish Refining Co. Ltd.
White Gate (Cork)
Duitsland (BR).
Nederland 4
Duits- Frank- land ri 1k
Gemeen– echat) (βÌ
bestemmine ;XSaitel* Frankr.l ItaliB 'Nederland Belgi8 Luxemb. V.K. Ierland Deneis.
Ierland ~
 Land Doitaland
ïiriand ^ –w––C,9
in t per barrel
Tabel 21 ItWhcLc.
Nederland Duitsland
België Nederland 48,- 79,35
Ierland 92,80
Duitsland 79,-/81,-
Ierland 75,- 83,82 Nederland 125,- 110,93
112 ,- Nederland 159,- 139,42
Duiteland ITederland
Ierland 110,90 175,97
121,40 België Duitsland 108,21
België Nederland 159,- 162,94 Luxemburg 135,07 126 ,- 157,46
Piatt's Rotterdam
Raffinage in Duitsland lOfo
A. Structure of the oil industry in Europe 14
1. Classification of oil companies 14
2. The role of companies in oil production 18
3. Structure of refining arid distribution in the
B. The oil crisis 28
Part I : The encruiry by the Commission
A. S<?Qpe and objects of the enquiry 5
-,tL.*w ~ B. Organisation of the enquiry 8
Trends in the demands for energy in -the Community between i960 and 1973 28
The events in 1973 31 Immediate consequences of the oil crisis ..••••••• 33 Reactions of the Commission 37
Relations between the oil companies and. public authorities
A. General relationships between oil companies and
national authorities during the oil crisis 40 «
(a) Belgium 40 (b) Holland 41 (c) France 42 (d) United Kingdom 44 (e) Italy 44 (f) Ireland 46 (g) Denmark 46 (h) Germany 46 (i) Luxembourg 47
B, Special measures and problems involving oil companies
and governments during the crisis 48
a) Supply pools in Belgium and in the Netherlands ... 48 b) Special problems relating to government price
controls 50 c) Stocks of crude oil and of refined products in
C. Arrangements concerning supplies to oertain national enterprises 54
The effects of the crisis on quantities and prices A, Quantities
b) Total Community imports of crude oil c,^-Quantities of crude oil refined
d')" Supplies to European companies with inadequate
sources of crude oil 62 e) Quantities of refined products supplied to the
domestic market ••••• 65 f) Total Community exports and imports of
b) Cost of access to crude oil of the large
c) Transfer prices of crude oil 84
companies with inadequate supplies of crude
oil 87 Prices for oil products 91
The independents 134 Part VI
On 21st December 1973 "the Commission issued a Press Statement ^ the text of which was as follows :
" Investigations by the Commission in the oil sector
In the present circumstances of the oil products market, the Commission is disturbed about the supply position of oil products
distributing firms independent of the integrated groups which have
their own refining facilities. These independent firms often encounter grave supply difficulties in connection with the common market - refineries and some are in an alarming situation.
The Commission considers that arrangements should be made
to ensure that the present circumstances do not give rise to the elimination of independent trading or its absorption by the big companies.
Refusal by the big companies to supply the independent distributors in an equitable manner may give rise to an application of
the competition rules of the Treaty and in particular Article 86 thereof.
The same holds good for practices which consist in the big companies applying to their trading partners different conditions for the provision of equivalent services or subjecting the signature of contracts to the acceptance by their partners of extra services.
The Commission has decided to make the requisite investi­ gations with the firms
The circumstances to which the Commission referred were
those which resulted from the events following the war between Israel and Arab countries of 6^ to 16"*1 October, 1973 and which completely disrupted the international oil market.
l) Information for Press (IP 226/73 of 21.12.1973)
 This report contains the results of the enquiry undertaken "by the Commission and provides at the sane time information requested "by the European Parliament.
In no way does the report replace any procedures v;hich
the Commission has commenced, or may commence,in application of
the rules of competition of the Treaty, after having pursued enquiries into the "behaviour of companies in the market for certain oil products.
The Commission's intention to commence investigations was widely reported particularly since public interest in the oil companies had,since "before the crisis jbeen whetted "by several enquiries pursued in other countries. Particular mention may be made of the hearings before a Senate Committee in the United States on the market performance and competition in the petroleum industry, the enquiry by a French parliamentary committee into oil companies operatinginFranceandenquiriesundertakenbythe Swiss Commission on Cartels. However, the only enquiry which
was concerned directly with events during the oil crisis was that undertaken in Germany by the Bundeskartellamt,which conducted public hearings on the activities of oil companies in Germany.
Even before December 1973 however, the Commission had
observed in the Second Report on Competition Policy when dealing
with the price trends of crude oil and petroleum products and the
competitive situation in that market , that it was watching carefully averyunstablesituation. IntheThirdReportonCompetitionPolicy^'
the Commission referred to its decision to open the necessary investigations into producer companies and dealers in the oil industry and expressed its concern that the price trends would give rise to circumstances in which anti-competitive practices might develop. It mentioned particularly the danger of the application by member states of national regulations concerning prices of oil
products. Although effective in slowing down the tendency of prices for such products to rise, these
regulations might nevertheless open up possibilities of some national markets becoming more profitable ,thus making it attractive for
operators of refining capacity to treat these markets advantageously at the expense of controlled markets. The Commission drew attention to the difficulties facing independent dealers and stressed that
(1) SecondReportonCompetitionPolicy:April1973;Sec62. (2) Third Report on Competition Policy : May 1974; Sec- 2.
 xt would "be able, in particular, to apply Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty of Rome, in any cases of distortion of competition or anticompetitive practices.
The aims of the general series of investigations initiated "by the Commission in December 1973 were to allow it
to obtain data and other information concerning a number of companies within the oil industry which would enable the Commission to determine whether the comportment of companies was compatible or not with the provisions of Article 85 or 86 of the Treaty of Rome.
Because of the special circumstances of, and its concern for the position of independent dealers, the Commission ensured that such firms were included in the planning and conducting of the enquanes.
So far as Article 85 is concerned, the enquiries were
to seek evidence of the existence of agreements "between undertakings, decisions "by associations of undertakings and concerted practices which might affect , or had affected , trade between member states
as their object or effect , the prevention , restriction of competition within the common market during the crisis.
and which had
period of the
Particularly in mind was the possible existence of agreements or concerted practices between oil companies concerning the sharing of markets or the fixing of prices or other conditions for
transactions concluded by the parties concerned.
The enquiries by the Commission were also aimed at examining the compatibility of the comportment of oil companies with Article 86 of the Treaty of Rome which forbids abuses of a dominant position. The general reliance of the Community on oil products for the supply of a considerable proportion of its
energy needs contributed to the view that during the oil crisis,
the position of oil companies was reinforced in respect of individual customers , for example , the smaller independent distributors , who had
been accustomed to relying oh one major oil company for their supplies ,
or in respect of a national market or other significant part of the common market whose supplies of oil products were largely dependent upon a few of the major oil companies. It was therefore possible to conceive the existence of dominant positions occupied by oil companies collectively or individually in specific markets.
The Commission was concerned at the possibility that
major oil companies which occupied a dominant position in respect
of a customer might have either restricted their deliveries or imposed prices for continued supplies of oil products which were unfair, even taking into account the spiralling costs of crude
oil, or might have "been able to make the conclusion of supply contracts subject to the acceptance "by the customer of supplementary obligations which were unconnected with the object of the contracts.
; Where oil companies were likely to occupy a dominant position collective­ ly , the Commission was anxious to ensure that markets , production or
prices had not been manipulated in a way which would prejudice the interests of consumers.
JThe various possibilities of abuse of a dominant position arising out of the structure and economics of the oil markets during
the crisis period were given special attention by the Commission. The first one concerned the survival of the independent distributors. In most cases , these independent distributors obtained , and indeed relied on, supplies from major oil companies v;ho themselves operated distri­ bution or retail networks in competition with the independents. It was therefore possible that because of shortage of supplies these major companies might have restricted supplies to independent companies, either by direct refusal to. supply or by the imposition of purchase prices which»because of the maximum retail prices imposed by the governments of the countries concerned,did not allow a viable margin for the independents. Although the oil companies might have been able to act in this way to ensure the maintenance of adequate supplies to their own networks, this would have been done at the expense of independent enterprises whose continued existence was threatened.
Another aspect which drew the attention of the Commission was the fact that during the crisis, certain member states had introduced various forms of price control , whilst others , such as Germany, had not. This meant that the possibility of higher profit margins from sales in a member state without maximum price control might have attracted oil companies ( and, in this case , perhaps not
only the major oil companies) to direct supplies to such markets to the detriment of other member states.
a) Choice of countries and compajij.es
The Commission decided to commence its enquiries in those countries which had excess refining capacity and which accordingly
were sources of supply to countries with insufficient refining capacity. In the years 1972 and 1973 jthe Netherlands , Italy and to a lesser
extent Belgium and France showed positive export balances. Exports
from the Netherlands for example went mainly to other countries of the Community and especially to Germany . According to the energy statistics
in Eurostat 2/75*, pages 61 and 63, Germany imported in 1973 about yjjo of its domestic consumption of oil products and the quantity involved was equivalent to the total exports of such products from
the Netherlands.
In the Netherlands besides member companies of the large international groups such as EXXON, SHELL, B.P. and CHEVRON (which belongs to the group of enterprises of the Standard Oil Company of California), independent oil companies who were leading exporters of light fuel oil to Germany were included in the investigations.
In Belgium the investigations covered two refineries : Albatros and the Societe Industrielle Beige des Petroles (SIBP), both of which undertook process refining of crude oil made available to them by other companies, who were either shareholders of these refineries or hirers of refining capacity. Other Belgian companies were investigated, among them Elf (Belgique).
In Italy and France besides the large international
' companies, enquiries were undertaken at the national companies
Azienda Generale Italiana Petroli (AGIP) and Compagnie Frangaise des Petroles (C.F.P.) v/hose operations,although international,are less so than those of the former companies.
Esso Italiana and two independent Italian refineries were also investigated.
(*) Eurostat = Statistical Office of the Communities : Luxembourg
In France , besides C.F.P. , the Société Française des Pétroles B. P. and several independent companies were included in "the investigations.
In the United Kingdom, B.P. Trading Ltd. which handles the international commercial interests of the B.P. Group was investigated.
Investigations were not pursued at that time in Germany
in view of the enquiries and public hearings which were then "being carried out by the Bundeskartellamt into "suspicions of abusive advantage of dominant positions in prices sought for petrol, diesel fuel and light fuel oil".
The main oil companies operating in Germany were invited
to these hearings which took place in the period 22 March to
4 April 1974. In view of the special situation concerning the
market for oil products in Germany and considering particularly
the shortage of refinery capacity in that country, the Commission estimated that their appraisal of the position in Germany should he "based principally on information obtained in other member states where oil products were produced for export to Germany. Information in respect of refining operations carried out in Germany was supplied by the companies or groups who operated those refineries.
The investigations , and the discussions which took place with the companies were generally conducted in an atmosphere of cooperation, and considerable efforts were made to produce promptly the various documents and information requested by the Commission's investigators .
b) Choice of period
The enquiries were concerned with the activities of the companies from October 1972.
The first investigations took place in January 1974 at which time the average P.O.B. price for crude oil from the Persian Gulf had reached its highest point.
The period from ls^ October 1973 "to 31S^ March 1974
was more precisely analysed by comparison with the corresponding period of the previous year.
c) Choice of products
The following products were covered by the enquiries :
- naphtha
- middle distillates : diesel oil, gas-oil, light fuel oils. - residual fuel oils.
The enquiry was extended to cover aviation jet fuel . by the supplementary questionnaire referred to below. This enquiry therefore covered the principal mineral oil products
(other than those in gaseous form ), which constitute a significant percentage of the products derived per tonne of crude oil in an average refinery in Europe.
The information received in the course of the enquiry- suggested the need to focus further attention on some particular aspects of the activities of the oil companies. It was decided that this supplementary information should "be requested from companies under the provisions of Article 11 of Regulation 17*
The questionnaire was aimed at covering the movements of crude oil and oil products "between refineries and affiliates of each company on the one hand and, on the other, "between these and third-companies. It contained a section on sales prices
that company , on the German market . This information from companies established within the Community as parent companies in third countries.
practised by was obtained well as from
This
has been undertaken by the Commission in respect of oil companies in connection with the rules of competition of the Treaty of Rome. It is also the first time that a report has been published following such an enquiry. The Commission considered that it would be useful- to recall some background information concerning the European oil industry and accordingly one part of the report examines the structure and organization of the oil industry in the
is the first time that an enquiry of this magnitude
Community and. outlines the events leading up to the oil crisis.
1. Classification of oil companies
The oil industry in Europe is made up of oil companies of varying sizes whose structures are often very different "but which
can "be grouped into various categories. »
Traditionally the oil industry is divided into two parts: the seven international companies - often referred to as the seven majors – with their subsidiary companies throughout the world,oh the one part , and , on the other part , those companies which are not attached to these and which might therefore "be described generally as independents.
However this division is arbitrary and no longer reflects the present structure of the oil industry, especially in Europe.
In a communication to the Council dated 18 December 1968, entitled "The First Guidelines for a Community Energy Policy" from
the Commission, the Commission attempted to develop a classification t/hich might correspond more closely with the actual situation of the
oil industry in Europe. Under this classification, the enterprises which operate on the European oil market fall into three principal categories as follows :
The 1arge international integrated companies operating worldwide • In this category are placed seven fully integrated companies :
five American ~ Standard Oil Company of New Jersey (Esso or Exxon), Texaco Inc. (Texaco), Gulf Oil Corporation (Gulf), Standard Oil Company of California (Chevron) and Mobil Oil Corporation (Uobil)
– and two European : Royal Dutch Shell (Shell) and British Petroleum Company (B. P. )
The integrated oil companies of which the activities are to a greater or lesser degree concentrated in one or several member states. There are in this category two French companies : Compagnie Frangaise des Petroles (CFP/Total) which is often included anong the large international companies and the Enterprise de Recherches
schaft and one Belgian company : Petrofina S.A. (Fina).
With the exception of the last-named., all these companies belong totally or partly to the corresponding member state.
Smaller companies which import and distribute oil products and of which some have their own refineries . Oil companies of
this type may be further divided into three groups from the point of view of size and the extent of their operations.
In the first group one could place certain international companies most of which are of United States origin and which
operate refineries and distribution networks, such as the Marathon Oil Company (U.S. ), CONOCO (U.S. ), the Burmah Oil Company Ltd. (U.K. ) and Philips Petroleum Company (U.S. ).
Besides these international companies one finds European companies whose activities are largely limited to one country
in the EEC. In this group is Anonima Petroli Italiana - API (Italy) which has a refinery and distribution network.
The third group might include a very large number of small
or medium-sized oil companies which specialise in the wholesale
or retail distribution of oil products and which have no refineries (Commission of the European Communities : 11 Small and medium-sized oil companies in the European Communities XVIl/415/74 -
In each country of the EEC,about ten of the large oil
companies from the above three categories (a) , (b) and (c) are active,
each possessing one or more refineries and/or a dense distribution
network. Alongside these larger companies the majority of the small
or medium-sized oil companies are concentrated at the level of distribution.
Their importance is usually regional or even more local . Altogether , however, they hold about 20 ^ of the market for oil products in the ECC(SeePartV ).
What has just been said points to the heterogeneous nature
of the structure of the oil companies operating on the market in the EEC. This heterogeneity is primarily a function of the extent to which the various oil companies have access to supplies of crude oil but also
stems from the degree of integration which is extensive in certain undertakings but minimal in others .
The following table (Table l) shows the principal financial and operational statistics in respect of the companies in the first
category of enterprise mentioned above :
 Bu* of 011 Group
penditure (b)| debt (o) fixed asaeta I eharee (d)
1974 > inorease 1971/1972 1972/ 1973 1973/ 1974
197? * inorease 1971/1972 1972/ 1973
fetal or the seven large international integrated ooapaniee
1974 % increase l?7l/l972 1973/1972 1973/ 1974
results Of the ltrm international Integrated ooapanles
Aaount pepraolatioa Capital ex- I Long tern Value of I Return on
(a) Ret revenu*available for distribution, after exceptional profits and losses and other expenses. (b) Only for the plants and equipaent owned by the ooapanies.
Source! "The Petroleua Seonoaist", Hay 1973, 1974, 1975
(0) it the alose of the year.
(d) Figures given in the reports showing the net r«venue(before exceotlonal mswj as
average percentage of the value of the shares in the trading year.
(e) In oertaln oases, processing agrewents with other ooapanies are inoluded. (f) For Mobil, the gross produotion of natural gas la inoluded.
 This report is not concerned with the financial results
of the large oil groups and. will limit itself here to some comments relevant to the results given in the table.
It must first be stressed that these are consolidated results which include all the operations of the companies in the various industrial sectors and in the different parts of the world where
they are active.
In 1973} "the economic expansion and the resulting pressure
on the market for oil products gave rise to increased demand arid an increase in the companies' profit margins. After four years of stagnation, the increase in the net revenue of the large international companies of American origin from 1972 to 1973 was 66. 6 This improvement was due to their operations outside the U.S.A. and, in particular, in Europe. The large European companies enjoyed spectacula increases in their revenues but reduced the sums distributed to permit investments without unduly increasing their long term debt .
In 1974, the net revenues increased on average by 25.4 i° compared with 1973 for the five American majors and by 59 c1° and 48 $ respectively for Shell and B.P. The results are all the more striking because, in the same period, the sales of products of all
these companies diminished; in the case of the two European majors the regression was more pronounced, 11.8 $ and 10.9 i°• This increase ) unlike that in 1973, stemmed mainly from operations in the U.S.A.
and from very favourable results in the chemical sector.
Nevertheless , despite the increase in net revenues , the long term debt of companies of which the growth had been generally halted in 1973 , again swelled significantly .
According to company reports , the situation reversed during the third quarter of 1974 and in the fourth quarter the losses were replaced by profits.
The development of profits in 1973 was therefore not
continued in 1974: "the margin of profit on concession oil (see Page 57) was reduced. The considerable increase in the prices of products
curbed consumption. The weather was favorable to fuel economy.
The under-employment of transport and refining capacity increased costs .
2. The role of companies in oil production
Until the middle of the 1950's practically all the
production of crude oil in the world, less China, the USSR and
Eastern Europe, was produced by the large international companies
which were accordingly in a position to determine prices. Since
about 1955 however, the structure of the oil industry has been
modified slightly. Attracted by the considerable increase in the
demand for oil , and by the advantageous conditions of concession
agreements granted by new producing countries several newcomers
have entered the business at the production stage, particularly in
the Middle East and in Africa: Occidental Oil , Continental Oil ,
Phillips Petroleum, Marathon and ENI are examples of such enterprises.
Advantageous conditions of access to production agreed by producing
countries for light crude oil , giving a higher yield , allowed these /
companies to break into the European market for the sale of light products - petrol and gas oil - without big investments.
Ten years after the creation in September i960 of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), e, collection
of circumstances brought an end to a long period of abundance of cheap oil and permitted the producing countries to join together in controlling production and prices. Among these circumstances were
an exceptionally high and maintained increase in the demand for oil
in Europe and in Japan and the factors which arose, in the sectors concerned , from the future energy supply in the United States,and , from the aspect of supply, the temporary withdrawal from service
of Tapline (the trans-Arabian pipeline from the Persian Gulf to
Sidon on the Mediterranean) and the reductions of production in Libya and in Nigeria.
The pressure on the oil market at this period was temporary. Nevertheless it was sufficient to change the balance of power in favour of the oil producing countries. Since then the oil companies have had to concede to the oil producing countries on several issues in the
course of the series of conferences called by these countries concerning proposals for increasing their revenues as well as their participation
in concessions : among these conferences v;ere those held at Caracas, December 1970 ; Teheran , February 1971 » Tripoli , . March 1971 ;
(l) Libya, particularly, had granted concessions 0:1 very
advantageous terms in order to break into markets. For several years,
" taxes uere calculated on the actual price instead of the P^ea price (. see Page 76) and rebates were granted which were partially subsidized by the state.
Algiers, June 1971 and. Geneva, 1972. However, until 1973 this process of evolution of power had "been somewhat slow "because of
the differences in the economic situation of the oil producing countries. The further turmoil "between Israel and the Arab countries had injected a fresh political solidarity into the relationship between the oil-producing countries in the Kiddle East which served to accelerate this process of change and which attempts by the oil companies and consumers were unable to curb.
Nevertheless, in 1973 the large oil companies still controlled 60 $ of the oil production in the world, less China, the USSR and Eastern Europe. This percentage was greater - reaching as much as 100 $ in some instances - in most of the Kiddle East countries and in Africa, which areas were of particular importance for the supplies to Europe (see Table 2).
 Country of origin
production of
Total production of crude oil by the seven major oil companies
Crudo oll production of tho seven major oil co^p&niee
. Prance I.255 Holland 1.494
World total Î.310.924
(*) Excluding China, the U.S.S.R. and Eastern Europe* The total production of this group is approximately 500 million tonnes* Source: Petroleua Times, July 26, 1974•
3. Structure of refining and distribution in the Community
It will "be seen from Table 3 that the oil companies belonging to the first two categories mentioned in Paragraph 1
above control a large share of the refining capacity of the Community.
Table 4 sets out the refining capacities in Western Europe of various categories of enterprises.
Two characteristics which are noticeable in respect of the refining capacity of the EEC are the geographical concentration of the refineries and the existence of a number of refineries which are
shared by several oil groups. The refineries of the oil companies are situated in particular regions of the Community which are advantageous for the receipt of crude oil and the onward flow inland of oil products, such as the areas of Rotterdam, Antwerp, the valley of the Seine and
the region of Borre,near Marseilles . At the same time , other regions , such as Ireland, Denmark and the south of Germany have insufficient refining capacity to meet their domestic needs.
The ownership of some refineries is shared by several oil groups : for example , the refinery operated by S.I.B.P. at Antwerp is owned by B.P. and Petrofina and the Caltex refinery at Rotterdam is owned jointly by Texaco and Chevron. In addition, extensive arrangements exist between oil companies for the exchange of refining capacity.
This joint operation of refineries by some oil companies and the exchange of refining capacity cannot be without effect on the solidarity of the oil companies concerned.
The exchanges of refining capacity between companies occur particularly between regions where excess refining capacity exists in large facilities (10 million tonnes and above)} they allow economies of scale in refining costs and avoid the costs of cross-transporting oil products.
So far as exchanges of products are concerned, which
also illustrate the solidarity between companies, these are usually complementary to exchanges of refining capacity. They allow companies, particularly those which have no refineries in a particular region , . to avoid the burden of transport in making available products from their own refineries. Petrofina, for example, has developed particularly such a network of exchange agreements in respect of its share of the products of SIBP at Afttwerp and of other refineries in
■the common market . I
List of refineries 1000 t.
Theoretical crude oil processing capacity (at the end of the year)
Karlsruhe e.900 Karlsruhe 6.750
List of refineries 1000 t.
Theoretical crude oil processing capacity (at the end of the year)
Italiana It .
Table 3 c List of refineries 1
Ifceoretical crude oil processing capacity (at the end of the year)
Shell It .
Getty Oil Italiana
Stanic S.p.a· Montecatini Edison Shell It·
British Petroleum Co,Ltd· Shell U.K. Ltd.
Burma Oil Trading Ltd* Berry Wiggins and Co, Ltd«
British Petroleum Co. Ltd» Shell U.K. Ltd.
Win. Briggs and Sons Ltd.
Stanlow Shellhaven Teesport Heysharo
White Gate (Cork)
Ibeoretical crude oil processing capacity (et the end of
Capacities at year end 1972
Italian independents Other independents
Reflning capacities of oil groups in Western Europe -* · ·_(M t/an-enfo)
KB. : The expression VEBA refers to the VEBA GBAG group which caine into being during the crisis.
Source : Statistics published by the Direction des Carburants. Prance.
1. Trends in the demands for energy in the Community "between I960 et 1973
During the period I960 to 1973 "the gross domestic energy consumption of the nine countries of the Community increased at an annual rate of 4.7 But whilst the consumption of hydrocarbons (oil and natural gas) increased at an average rate of annual growth of almost 13 the consumption of solid fuels (coals and lignite) reduced at a rate of about 3«4 $ per annum.
The disparity "between these rates led to a distinct change
in the pattern of dependance on the various sources for the energy consumption of the Community. In I960 solid fuels still accounted for about 67.4 of the total energy consumption as compared with 26.9 $ for hydrocarbons. In 1973 the situation was reversed. Hydrocarbons then accounted for 71*9 of the total energy consumption, whilst solid fuels accounted for no more than 23.7 /» (See Table 5)»
Domestic consumption of primary energy in ––– ^ the enlarged SSuropean Economic Community
Coal and equivalents 463 62.9 333 28.0 299 Lignite and equivalents 33 4.5 35 2.9 34 Oil and equivalents I85 25.I 674 56.7 704
Electrical Total
tec = tonnes of coal equivalent
Source : Bulletin of Energy Statistics - EUROSTM1, Luxembourg.
The explanation of this development lies in the fact that during the decade i960 to 1970, oil was abundant and cheap. This situation had the effect of accelerating the shrinkage of the coal industry and slowing down the development of nuclear energy in the Community .
 Origin of crude oil
A. Production of the Community
B. Imports from the Near and
Rest of the world
As a result , in 1973 almost 60 Jfa of the energy needs of the Community was covered "by oil of which about 98$ wa3 imported (see
Table 6). Almost 95 i° of this oil came from the Middle East and frca Africa : Table 6 shows clearly the dependence of the energy requirements of the Community on the countries in these regions of the world.
Table 6 Oil supplies of the European Economic Community
Source : Bulletin of Energy Statistics EUROSTAT, Luxembourg.
The countries who, in 1973 depended least on oil for their energy requirements, were the Netherlands and the United Kingdom
where, in both cases, dependence on oil was below 50 $8 in "the case of the Netherlands this is attributable to their resources _ .
of natural gas which has been extensively developed as an alternative fuel whilst the economy of the United Kingdom is strongly and traditionally related to coal. The countries most dependent on oil were Italy, Ireland and Denmark : in the first two cases 75 $ in the third case almost $0 $ of the domestic consumption of prime energy was satisfied by oil (see Table f).
Netherlands
united Kingdom Ireland Denmark
Community Totc.l
Hard coal Lignite Crude oil Natural gas Other fuels Primary Total 1 electricity consumption
Domestic consumption of primary energy in the European Economic Community - 1973
tec » tonnes équivalent of coal
The differences b-tween the data in Table 5 for 1973 and the data set forth in Table 7 as the "Community total" axises from the rounding off of the figures.
Sourco t Bulletin of Energy Statistics : EUROSTAT - Luxembourg.
2. The events In 1973
During 1973 there gradually developed, a market situation which was particularly favourable to sellers. This was due to events which influenced "both the demand and the supply of oil.
During this year, the total world needs had increased "by some
8 /b which was more rapid than had "been envisaged : in Japan and in the United States the increase was 15 $ and 4*5 $ respectively. Faced with a serious shortage in domestic resources, the national production having decreased slightly , and with inadequate refining capacity , the Government of the United States authorized an increase in imports of crude oil and refined products. Thus the United States for'the first time "became an important "buyer of crude oil from the Kiddle East and Africa. .As a consequence of the restrictions imposed "by the U.S. legislation concerning environmental protection, this extra defend was concentrated almost exclusively on the market of crude oil from Africa which has a low sulphur content (Algerian, Libyan and Nigerian oil) as well as that of light products and middle distillates.
These products had "been purchased by the United States partly from Europe and this fact, together with a brisk domestic demand, did not fail to cause pressure on the markets for petrol and gas oil, particularly during the first three months of 1973» For the whole year-, the total demand for oil products in the Community of nine increased
by about 6 /£, the demand for gas oil exceeding by 1270 that of 1972.
All these events influencing demand came about at a moment
when the supply situation on the world market was relatively weak.
This was attributable to several reasons. Firstly, certain producer
countries, particularly Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria, and Bahrain had reduced
their production for technical reasons or with the aim of conserving
their resources. Thus despite the production effort of Saudi Arabia
and Iran, the resulting increase in supply was not entirely able to cover the increase in the demand for oil.
There were,in addition,various factors of s, technical and economic character which had the consequence of delaying the development of the capacity of production installations and port facilities for the transport and loading of crude oil in certain producer countries.
These delays were partly due to delays in manufacture and delivery
of material for exploitation and, on the other hand, to the post­ ponement by the oil companies of certain investments because of the
uncertainty concerning conditions of production which had existed /
The close balance "between supply and demand reached its crisispointatthetime ofthewar"betweenIsraelandArab countries of 6^ to 16^ October 1973*
On 8 October, the oil companies and the six oil producing
countries of the Persian Gulf (Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Abu
prices of February 1971. Another meeting between the producer countriesofthePersianGulf tookplaceon16^and17^October
in Kuwait. They decided unilaterally to fix new prices for crude oil which were 75 higher than the previous prices. At the same time
they decided to reduce gradually, by 5 /° each month, their production of crude oil until the withdrawal of Israel from the territories
which it had occupied and,further,to put an embargo on exports to countries which they considered to be enemies of the Arab cause, especially the United States, the Netherlands and Denmark.
On 22n^" and 23r<^ December, s,t a meeting in Teheran, the oil
producing countries of the Persian Gulf decided to increase their
prices for .crude oil from 1 January 1974 by more than 100/b. Ax the
same time, however, they decided to relax from that date their restrictions on production but the embargo was to be maintained for a further two months.
' ThusascanbeseenfromtheexamplegiveninTable8,the average cost of access to one type of crude oil increased almost five-fold within the space of three months.
Price of Arabian light crude oil from Ras Tamira
Average cost of access for the
 Immediate consequences of the oil crisis
The events described above had serious repercussions on the national and international economic life of all the countries in the
Community. The problems which arose concerned principally the availa­ bility of supplies and price levels, and it became necessary to adjust energy policies to the changes in these two factors.
The supply conditions had been disturbed for several months before the end of the war of October 1973 and the security of supplies
cf certain countries of the Community was very uncertain. All countries, very quickly after October 1973, took measures aimed at guaranteeing security of 'their supplies: these measures included export controls of oil products , setting up of stocks , prohibition on the driving .of motorcars on Sundays , petrol rationing , which was introduced briefly
in the Netherlands , and bilateral agreements with producer countries .
From the start,the crisis ha.s been regarded essentially as a problem of shortage of oil, but as the grounds for fear in this direction were reduced, the problem of prices, with all its financial and economic consequences , came to the forefront .
In fact the Eupply difficulties reduced, particularly after December 1973, whilst prices increased in a spectacular way. In the
space of a few months, petrol quotations on the Rotterdam market had
more than doubled, those of gas oil had increased by two and a half times and those of industrial fuels had increased more than six-fold (see Table9)«
The domestic prices for oil products did not increase at
the same pace particularly as they were closely controlled by the Governments in most of the member countries . In fact , the cost of crude
oil contributes only partly to these domestic prices which are composed also of costs of refining , of transport , of distribution and , for some products, particularly of indirect taxes on consumption.
Nevertheless,these prices were increased several times, although at different dates, in the various countries of the Community, in order to take account of the increases in costs of crude oil
Netherlands Belgium .
*nAa« « not quoted on a public exchange.
Domestic prices for certain oil products - taxes included in S per
eavy fuel oil,high .ulp'nur content 1.8.73
iame exchange rates -s are sot forth in Fatile 10 a.
Domestic prices for certain oil products - exclusive of taxes in S per
Products 3ermany Prance Italy Netherlands Belgium Luxembourg Kingdom Ireland Denmark i
The considerable rise in price of crude oil contributed
at the same time to price increases in the various sectors of activity throughout the oil industry and accelerated the rate of inflation which was already raging in several countries.
The additional charges which had to be borne in order to have access to the same quantities of crude oil as before, had as an immediate consequence, an increase in the external debts of several countries of the Community.
In order to face up to all these problems which arose from
the oil crisis, the Governments of member states of the Community brought into operation certain defensive measures which had an influence on the operation and unity of the common market.
Reactions of the Commission
Since the start of the oil crisis the Commission of the European Communities had taken several initiatives which were aimed at resolving,at a Community level, problems which confronted member states*
At the end of their conference which took place in Copenhagen on 14 ^ and 15^' December 1973» "the Heads of State or of Government
asked the Commission to put forward propositions " aimed at resolving, ■, inaconcertedmanner,theproblemsarisingfromthedevelopmentofthe present energy crisis 11 and to provide "arrangements which will ensure
that all member states take, on a collective and equitable basis, measures aimed at reducing the consumption of energy ".
On 16 January 1974 "the Commission communicated to the
Council six propositions in respect of measures which might be taken in the Community because of the oil crisis. These propositions envisaged simultaneous action on transactions in oil products between member states and with other countries, on the prices of these products, and on measures which were aimed at reducing energy consumption, by such means as would maintain, by common action as a Community, the smooth operation of the common market.
In its communication to the Council*the Commission said that exchanges of oil products within the Community would have to be
undertaken with due respect for the principle of free circulation of goods and that procedures were envisaged which would allow remedies
to be applied in any cases of difficulties which might arise in
member states. It further proposed that abnormal exports to third countries which might jeopardize the availability of supplies to the Community should be avoided. The attainment of these objectives
depended on a ready access to precise and homogenous information on intra-Community exchanges and on exports to third countries. They also called for frequent consultations between member states and the Commission in order to agree on possible commercial measures.
The Commission further proposed to the Council a temporary Community system for the supervision of prices of oil products and subsequently a recommendation of the Council was addressed to member states on the subject of the maintenance and harmonization of voluntary measures for the reduction of energy consumption in the Community.
Since these measures were aimed at facing up to a crisis situation,the Commission hoped that its propositions might be adopted
by the Council for application up to 30th June 1974. In fact the crisis had receded somewhat "by the "beginning of 1974 arid
the Council never pronounced on these propositions "by the Commission.
The reactions by the Commission to the onset of the
oil crisis were justified by the outbreak of the war in the Middle East and the measures decided upon by the member countries of OPEC. It was , at that time , impossible to foresee future developments and it would have been improvident not to take a serious view of the possibility of a crisis of long duration.
The impression may perhaps be gained from this report that the effects of the crisis on supplies to the Community
were not particularly severe. Such a conclusion is possible now, several months afterwards. It nevertheless remains true that
the end of 1973 and the beginning of 1974 was regarded by the Community , member states , oil companies and consumers as a period of crisis and attitudes and measures then taken were conditioned by the desire to be prepared for a possible long duration .
Close relationships existed in all countries in the Community "between the oil companies and public
authorities . During the oil crisis such links "became more extensive } particularly in Belgium , the Netherlands , France and Italy . Sometimes the relationships are "based on laws or regulations such as in Italy and France ; in other instances the relationship is on a de facto "basis.
Section A "below analyses the general relationship "between
the oil 'companies and the national authorities . Section B describes the relationship which existed "between the oil companies and national governments
in respect of the resolution of certain specific problems which arosefsucb as that concerning the maintenance of supplies to certain classes of consumers and independents during the oil crisis. Section C deals with agreements concerning supplies to certain' national enterprises .
In pursuance of a Convention dated 12th Kay 1964>a committee
of control – Comite du controle d'electricite et du gaz – was established in Belgium with responsibilities for submitting recommendations to the Government
in respect of tariffs and distribution arrangeraents for gas and electricity*
Before the crisis , no such arrangement:?, existed in respect of oil .
However there existed a Consultative Committee for oil created by Royal Decree
of 27th September 1972. At the beginning of November 1973 a further liaison committee was created but not as the result of any legislation or specific regulation. The president of the committee was the Minister of Economic Affairs snd members were drawn from various ministries with associated interests and the oil companies. This liaison committee was divided into three specialised sections dealing respectively with :
– gas oil, light heating oil and petrol - resiaual fuels
The activities of the liaison committee gave rise to the publication by the Minister of a number of directives concerning ,for example ,requisition procedures and the maintenance of supplies to independents.
But the oil crisis had emphasized the necessity of a more permanent relationship "between the Government and the oil companies. There was accordingly created
(Official Gazette of the 10th April 1974). The Committee had as its prime purpose the exploration of solutions to problems concerning the production, the
supply , import , distribution , transport , storage , marketing and costs of oil and of oil products. The Committee was empowered to deal with the problem of formulating prices for oil products .
Membership of the Committee was drawn from three sources -"Organizations with a 'supervisory' role (trade unions and professional associations), organizations to be supervised (refining and distributiiig companies) and public' authorities .
Price structure difficulties were sorted out by the 'planning agreement' signed on 24th July 1974 by the Minister of Economic Affairs arid the Belgian. Oil Federation , which set up a procedure for establishing sale prices.
The relationship between the oil companies and the government has always been based on what might be described as a gentlemen's agreement. Up
to 195C, Shell was the only refining company operating in Holland. The • subsequent establishment of new refineries meant that the Minister for Economic Affairs was obliged to contact each of the oil companies concerned when he wished to discuss problems affecting the oil industry in Holland as a whole. In order to simplify these contacts , the Olie Contact Conanissie (O.C.C. ) was established about 1550 at the invitation of the government. The chairmen of the O.C.C. have always been former directors of Shell. All the companies which undertake refining in Holland are represented on the O.C.C., that is Shell, Esso, BP, Chevron , Texaco , Mobil , Gulf , Cornpagnie frangaise des petroles and Petrofina which hires refinery capacity. One of the functions of the O.C.C. is to submit to the Minister of Economic Affairs joint propositions in respect of the calculation of maximum prices .
. During the oil crisis the members of the O.C.C. in agreement with the organizations for commercial retailers of oil products, proposed minimum profit margins for deliveries of oil products through the Rijksbureaujwhose function is described in detail in Section B. The reso:,tended margins were subsequently opposed by the independent oil companies on the basis that they did not permit these companies to cover their costs of distribution. During the oil crisis the
companies who were members of the O.C.C. cooperated with the Rijksbureau for
the establishment and maintenance of 'pools' of oil products which were intended to provide supplies to consumers and independent companies who found themselves in particular difficulties through the shortage of oil products.
The French oil industry is regulated by the Lav; of 1928. This law organizes the oil industry and casts the public authorities in the role of guardian of the oil companies. This undoubtedly had the effect of creating a strong state interest in the oil sector represented by C.F.P. and Elf Srap but it also gave rise to a situation favourable to concertations between oil companies. Without describing in detail the French legislation, mention may be made of the main principles together with some indication of how this legislation has influenced the behaviour of the French cil companies during the oil crisis.
The successive laws and government decrees affecting the oil
industry dealt with such matters as the import of crude oil, the distribution of refined products, the establishment of prices at both the refinery and distribution level, the definition of oil products and the control of quantities made available for sale on the French market. Oil companies in France participated to some extent in the operation of a state monopoly,a function which had been assigned to them by the Law of 1928. In effect, the provisions of the various laws and decrees envisage that the right to import crude oil will be reserved exclusively to certain named companies who have been granted an authorization which is valid
in principle for ten years. Similarly the right to import arid distribute
refined products depends on the grant of sn authorization which is valid for three
years and which deals with quota arrangements for petrol only. At the present time no limits are fixed in respect of other oil products. La Compagnie Frangaise
de Raffinage , which is a subsidiary of the Compagnie Frangaise des Petroles , also
enjoys a special authorisation for it to distribute annually 25$ of the oil
products intended for domestic consumption and to import corresponding quantities of crude oil.
These arrangements had the effect of inducing certain concerted practices which went beyond the limits envisaged by the legislators.
the French national authorities established the fact that a system of
distribution quotas had existed over two periods, i960 to 1962 and 1968 to 1959. Attempts by the oil companies to increase prices by concerted action,however,were rare during these periods. Such concerted practices concerned sales of fuel
oil to municipal establishments and on the wholesale market for fuel oils and petrols . These enquiries ,which covered the whole of France ,were the subject of an opinion expressed by the Committee on Cartels and Dominant Positions , (Bulletin Officiel des Services de Prix dated 18th April 1973)•
In this opinion the French authorities recognised that the Law of 1928 had
of necessity given rise to a certain concertation in the field of distribution of oil products. The Committee stressed,however,that the restrictive practices which had been detected had gone far "beyond the extent necessary for the proper application of the government regulation. That Committee also recommended that no legal action should be taken before 1st October 1973, on condition that "by
that date the public authorities and the oil ind\istry would have defined the field and the extent to which concerted practices were admissible in the sector of oil products .
Because of the action taken by the French authorities , the Commission did not deem it appropriate to introduce formal procedures under Articles 05 arid 86 of the Treaty of Rome in respect of the concerted practices which had been brought to light by the report of the Committee on Cartels and Dominant Fositicns .
Towards the end of 1973, a protocol was drawn up by the public authorities and signed by the oil companies and the trade organizations. This protocol and its ratification by the signatories was published on 20th February 1974* The object of the protocol was to define the commercial practices which were admissible in the light of the rules of competition under French law.
So far as the concerted practices of a regional nature are concerned, in particular those involving the municipal markets in the region of Marseilles and which were the subject of legal action commenced by the French judiciary at the beginning of 1973, their essentially local character places them outside the criteria for the application of the Treaty of Rome.
When it "became clear in October 1973 that the production of crude oil would be affected by the Israel–Arab conflict, the Department of Tra.de and Industry in the United Kingdom set up an Oil Emergency Group which was charged with coordinating government action . At the same time , the Oil Industry
Emergency Committee (O.I.E.C. ) was convened under emergency arrangements for dealing with .supply difficulties . Membership of the O.I.E.C. consisted of representatives of the principal oil refining and marketing companies in the United Kingdom : several subcommittees were formed to deal with special topics , such as marketing , retail supplies and statistics . Following the introduction of the Fuel and Electricity (Control) Act 1973, directions were issued'in November 1973 to all companies requiring them to reduce deliveries to customers of the main oil products to 90/& of the level of deliveries in the previous year.
The plan for the reorganization of the Italian oil industry was adopted by the Inter–Ministry Committee of Economic Planning (C.I.P.E. ) some time before the commencement of the oil crisis . Its aims were :
- to give a defined status to the State companies and especially to
– to maintain conditions of competition between a large number of enterprises .
The crisis and the various national regulations which maintained maximum prices below international levels accelerated- the process envisaged
by the plan of reorganization and modified extensively the structxire of the Italian oil industry. Shell Italiana and 13.P. Italiana left the market, the former being purchased completely by A.G.I.P. and the latter by the Monti Group. The outcome was a reinforcement of the influence of the State on the Italian oil industry but this was achieved at the cost of heavy losses which were suffered during the crisis by A.G.I.P.
 company of significance in the companies which exist in Italy authorized capacity.
In conclusion , the Before the crisis the activity
field, of refining. The other international represent in total no more than 11.5# of the
oil crisis modified the oil policy in Italy.
The new plan for the reorganization of the oil sector provided for the introduction of import quotas for crude oil and an increase of the quantity authorized for A.G.I.P. It also envisaged the development of a fleet of tankers of E.N.I, under the Italian flag. It further envisaged the development of all the oil activities of A.G.I.P. and eventually the extension of state control to the whole of the sector concerned with the distribution of
oil products . The development of A. G.I. P. in the various fields was considered ι
by the State as necessary to ensure the adequacy of supplies for the national market. To effect this, the plan envisaged an extension of the activities of E.N.I, in the sector of the production of crude oil either by an intensification of exploration activities or by the conclusion of medium and long–term purchasing contracts within the framework of exchanges, of links and of contracts for cooperation and industrial assistance with oil producing countries.
So far as refining is concerned, the part played by international oil companies was already extremely limited. In 1974, 79# of the authorised refining capacity was already covered, by the following companies :
It can be seen that Esso was , and it remains , the only international
of the E.N.I. Group constituted a competitive factor with the other international groups established in the country. Since the
crisis , the ir.flucrics of State in the oil sector has besn
clearly extended. E.l.'.I. now occupies the role of a supply agency in respect of crude oil both for its own refineries and for non-integrated Italian groups v/ho undertake process refining.
During the oil crisis the relationships "between the xrish Government and the oil industry in handling the oil supply shortage and economy measures were pursued on a basis of close cooperation between the oil companies and the
Minister for Transport and Power . In addition , regulations governing the maintenance of oil reserves were made "by the Minister. Under Irish legislation however , the Minister for Transport and Power can , in an emergency situation , control the activities of oil companies through the Fuels (Control of Supplies ) Act 1971 .
In normal times, the delivery of oil products by the oil industry to traders and consumers is not subject to any form of legislation but during the oil
crisis two ministerial decrees were issued – on 19th and 27th ITovember 1973.
Both these decrees concerned gas oil , diesel oil , bottled gas and fuel oil . The first of these decrees established two committees : the first was concerned with
the allocation of oil products between traders and the second was established
by the Minister of Commerce -as a general supervisory body : the latter was also empowered to investigate and act in respect of complaints received from consumers. The first decree also contained provisions concerning the registration by suppliers of details of their transactions in oil products .
During the crisis the Federal Government did not find it necessary to introduce any law or regulation concerning quantities and prices of oil products .
The difficulties which nevertheless arose in connection with supplies were solved through close contacts between the public authorities
and the oil companies . Enterprises in the oil sector , producers , importers and dealers were represented on supply committees – 'Industry* and 'Importers and intermediary dealers'.
Several arrangements resulted from this cooperation. For
some oil products including petrol , industrial and domestic fuels and naphtha, communication networks were set up "by the oil companies to avoid disturbances of supply. A voluntary information system was established under which the oil companies regularly informed the Ministry for Economic Affairs of, in particular, imports of crude oil and oil products, refining, sales,stocks and selling prices.
In respect of the supply of diesel oil, priority was given to meeting the requirements of industry to avoid an adverse effect on the employment situation. Supplies of light fuel oil to domestic consumers were limited to 75$ of their normal consumption to induce consumers to make the fullest use of their stocks. The oil companies endeavoured to prevent their filling-stations from giving priority to regular customers .
In addition, voluntary limitations were introduced on prices of certain products, including light fuel oil.
Almost all the oil products to meet the requirements of Luxembourg aad for a long time originated from refineries at Antwerp. In 1972 Luxembourg began to receive some products from Germany, particularly residual fuel oils. The existence of a system of maximum prices for these products in Luxembourg caused difficulties for some independent companies who obtained supplies from Germany.
Side by side with these rules and arrangements dealing primarily with price levels , all the Community countries except Denmark and Ireland
introduced export licensing systems for oil products during the crisis. Although these licences were theoretically granted without restrictions in time, at
no cost and for whatever quantity was requested, the control facilities which they placed in the hands of the Member States in fact inevitably tended to segregate the common market.
Hence during the crisis,all the member states equipped themselves with the means to take action with varying degrees of compulsion. It is
interesting to note that none of these measures really had any .influence on trade in overall terms. Greater quantities of products might have been expected to flow av/ay from markets with low controlled prices to markets where prices were higher or uncontrolled . But this did not happen , and although
the figures show that imports into Germany did swell in October and November ι
1973, trade flows remained stable over the six-month crisis period and Germany continued to import the same volumes (99*2$ of the corresponding period of
the previous year) from the same exporting countries (mainly the Netherlands).
a) Supply pools in Belgium and in the Netherlands
In Belgium and in the Netherlands the governments asked the large oil companies to make supplies available to consumers who were unable
to obtain deliveries , such as independent companies who were unable to obtain oil products on the national market or by importation. From
the point of view of competition!these pools led to very close contacts
between the various companies who were members of the pools, without achieving a complete resolution of the supply problems of the independent companies .
The Ministerial Decree of 6 November 1973 and subsequent
notices provided that supplies should be made available to independent
companies on the following basis :
 – independent companies who were regular customers should "be supplied
with a minimum of 75$ of their reference quantities ^ that is ,the quantities
which were delivered to them during the corresponding period in 1972;
– those companies who had made occasional pur-chases (on a "spot" basis) should receive a minimum of 50$ of their reference quantities;
– other customers should be supplied with a minimum of 45$ of their reference quantities .
However the interpretation of these provision:; was left to the discretion of the large companies and they were implemented "by directives of the Liaison Committee of the Belgian Oil Federation. This Federation set up a pool with a secretariat which had representatives of five of the large oil companies: B.P., Texaco, Shell, Esso and Calpam (SHV/Chevron).
The pool had two main functions :
– to supply independent importers with up to 45$ of the quantities they had required in the corresponding period of the previous year ;
– to supply priority customers , such as hospitals and schools .
The pool then allocated between its members those orders which the independents were unable to meet . The result was , for a time , a typical sharing arrangement of those markets which the independents had been forced to quit.
In March and April 1974 j'the operation of this pool was backed up by powers allowing the authorities to requisition products so as to meet certain very difficult situations facing the independents and priority customers. According to information provided by the Belgian oil companies , certain of these requisitions were carried out only to an extent varying between 15$ and 4
A state office, the Rijksbureau, was set up in Holland by a Ministerial Decision of 13th llovernber 1973, to organise the country's
supplies of oil products. The Rijksbureau consisted of experts, seconded froa oil companies operating refineries in Holland, supported by administrative staff. It was essentially an executive body. At the request of the Minister for Economic Affairs , it drew up a scheme of rationing and organized a pool of oil products , contributed by the oil companies , from which supplies v;ere allocated to meet special demands of consumers and independent ' distributors. The activities of the Rijksbureau ceased on 1st April 1974*
In certain countries, particularly Belgium, the Netherlands and
Italy, one of the effects of the price levels of the various oil products fixed by the government was to provoke movements of stocks oi crude oil.
In tne Netherlands a reduction in the production of heavy fuel
"by the refineries was noticed, due to the consumption having dropped "by considerable proportions in comparison with the preceding year because natural gas was being used as a substitute form of energy.
The production of petrol increased , although during the crisis the consumption of petrol on the national market also diminished by 15$ to 20$ in respect of the reference months of the preceding year following the Dutch
authorities* recommendations on fuel economy. Despite the oil embargo ι
directed against the Hetiierlands, as a result of purchases of lighter oils v;hich gave a greater yield of petrol , the production of petrol was maintained and , in
fact, the proportion of petrol exported of the total production of petrol increased from 44/* in January 1974 "to 56$ in March 1974* The fixing of domestic prices in the Netherlands for petrol s-t a level which was considerably lower
than the international price therefore gave rise to a proportional increase in the exports of petrol.
In Belgium the introduction of maximum prices similarly influenced the behaviour of the oil companies, leading them to reduce their stocks and their
imports of crude oil. In fact, it is apparent iron an analysis of the financial effects of the crisis on one company in Belgium that
the profits achieved by the enterprise on the whole of its products attained their highest level during the fourth quarter of 1973> then tailed off until they disappeared completely and turned into a deficit for fuels and gas oils from the beginning of 1974*
A note from the Oil Federation dated 16 January 1974 confirms that
all the oil companies found themselves in the same situation. At the same time, refinery production reduced during the first quarter of 1974 in comparison
with the corresponding quarter of 1973 by about 26$ for petrol , 25$ for gas oil and middle distillates and 27$ for heavy fuel oil.
In Italy , according to data obtained from four companies , the average monthly prices for purchases of crude oil c.i.f. were, "before the
start of the oil crisis , largely above the prices fixed by the CIP2 (the Inter-Ministry Committee for Economic Planning).
However, one must take into account the fact that because cf the considerable capacities for stocks which existed in Italy, the increase in the maximum prices authorized by the CIFE in February 1974 allowed the oil companies to achieve considerable profits on the quantities held in stock. Crude oil purchased in November 1973 at 23.255 lire per tonne was accounted for on the basis of the price of 45«000 lire established by the CIFE in
February 1974* 'These profits were,however, only temporary because the costs of replacing the oil sold had to be taken into account. Two international enterprises abandoned their activities cn the Italian market - Shell Italiana and B.P. Italiana. The Moratti Group increased its activities in the field of refining services for export where prices were free. Moreover,the prices of naphtha, 'which were not subject to maxinu'a price control, increased quite considerably . The petro-chemical refineries , such as those of Montedison , recovered the increase in price of crude oil on naphtha and petro-chemical
bases since they were not able to do so on oil products which were subject to maximum price control. AGIP which by talcing up the BP network, had increased
its share of the market, sustained considerable losses due to its purchases of crude oil at prices which were too high, taking into account the maximum prices in Italy.
This control of prices influenced the structure of the oil industry in Italy "by discouraging international groupings which had partly given up their place to the E1TI Croup and had abandoned their
refining activities to Italian companies offering refining services.
°) Stocks of crude oil and of refined products in Be1gium
This problem was studied in considerable detail in view of the questions which had been raised in the European Parliament in respect of Belgium. The Commission supplemented its investigations on this aspect by sending a detailed questionnaire to eight Belgian oil companies who were carrying out refining in Belgium in the period from the end of November 1972 to the end of April 1974•
The Commission confirmed that the total stocks of crucie oil
increased up to 30th June 1973 and then thereafter were reduced uniformly until
30th April 1974. The reduction in the level of stocks showed some
relationship with the increase in the price of crude oil and with the maintenance of the prices of oil products in Belgium at a level lower than the international quotations .
An analysis of the relevant data of the eight companies during
this period in respect of each of the four occasions when price increases were authorized by the Belgian Government, revealed no similarity of movements
in the stocks of crude oil belonging to the various companies which might
have led one to presume the possibility of some concerted practice aimed at gaining profit from the increase in maximum prices.
A positive indication of the existence of a concerted practice
would have been a collective increase in the stocks of crude oil in anticipation of the increase in maximum prices of oil products , and then a reduction in stocks when the increases in maximum prices had been approved.
In respect of the price increase of 1st January 1973 this double movement is identifiable only in respect of two companies out of
the eight studied. For the increases which were put into effect on 1st June
1973 and 1st July 1973, this double movement was present in respect of all
eightcompaniesconcerned. Forthepriceincreaseof15thNovember1973,only
one of the eight companies showed this double movement. For the increase of
1st April 1'974 this double movement is noted for four companies out of the eight.
It therefore seems that, except for tho price increase of 1st June 1973 when the oil companies increased their stocks before the
price increase and reduced their stocks when the price increase became effective, the companies chose rather to attemptjby reducing their stocks of crude oil,to exer-t pressure on the Belgian Government to increase the maximum prices of oil products.
The Commission has found that in all countries operating price controls , the oil companies exerted pressure on governments in order to
have prices adjusted in line with the increase in the cost of crude oil,Belgium appears to be the only country where this pressure was accompanied by stock movements and. a slowdown in imports. The reason, no doubt, is that in
other countries the regulations issued by the authorities gave them more clearly defined powers in controlling what the conps/nies did with their stocks , while other governments decided more quickly on their attitude to requests
from companies.
The Commission has examined certain supply arrangements between oil companies and some large national undertakings . .
In France the Commission has examined the contracts entered
into by two oil companies and Electricite de France. Both companies concluded with EDF contracts of similar type for the same duration of ton years , for the exclusive supply to certain power stations . Such contracts
of exclusivity of supply could give rise to problems with regard to the rules of competition. Their terms will be the subject of further examination.
In Italy the contract entered into by L'sso and Ilontcdison for the provision of naphtha was for a duration of ten years. It has just expired. The Commission will examine the conditions on which it has been renewed.
In general, contracts between oil companies arid national enterprises would have to "bo the object of a more detailed examination in order to
determine whether the nature of these contracts has contributed to some
sharing out of customers.
One of the items dealt with in this chapter will be supplies of crude oil. A number of terms used in the oil industry are used here and a definition of these terms and a brief description of the way in which crude oil is acquired may he helpful.
Before the crisis ,the ownership of crude oil in the various producer countries depended on a series of agreements concluded in 1972 "between the producer countries themselves and the oil companies or groups. Under these agreements , known as "participation agreements" , the companies owned part of the crude oil. This was known either as "concession oil" or as "equity crude". The proportion of total production accounted for by concession oil varied from country to country and from agreement to agreement . Before the crisis , for instance , concession oil represented 75 of total production in Saudi Arabia.
Another portion of crude oil production, owned by the producer state in line with its shareholding, was known as "participation" oil or crude and in January 1973 represented 25 cp of Saudi Arabian production.
"Participation oil" is further subdivided into "bridging oil" and "phase-in oil". These were defined by the participation agreements.
"Bridging oil" was the term applied to agreed quantities of. participation crude oil which producer countries were obliged to sell back to oil companies during the first three years of the operation of the participation agreements (that is, 1973, 1974 and 1975) "to permit these companies to fulfil, during these transitional years, their existing supply commitments. In the case of Saudi Arabia, l8,75l/o of the total oil production was allocated as bridging oil .
"Phase-in oil" was the term applied to agreed maximum quantities
of ps,rticipation crude oil which producer countries
the oil companies to buy back from them, if, during Il II
could require the period when their own
the producer countries were developing ( phasing- in )
commercial policy, these countries encountered difficulties in disposing themselves of crude oil within these maximum quantities. It was envisaged that the "phase-in" arrangements would extend
to 1991* I*1 'the case of Saudi Arabia, in 1973 3»75$ of the total oil production was allocated as phase-in oil. The concepts Of bridging oil and pha,se-in oil were not operated by all the oil producing countries and indeed fell out of use towards the end
of 1973.
The balance of participation crude oil not ea.nna-rk.ed a.s bridging oil or phase-in oil was referred to as "state oil", a term which is sometimes also used as an alternative to "participation oil".
in operation at the onset of the changed rapidly . The proportion
to participation oil was fixed, should have remained at this level
These were the concepts which were
oil crisis ; however , the situation
of total oil production attributed
as has been said, at about 25/o and
until 31 December 1977» after which date it was due to be increased annually until a limit of 5lfo was reached in 1982. But already by 1974
the various participation agreements were no longer respected by the producing countries and the proportions of concession oil and participation oil were, in that year,40/° ^d 60fo respectively for the Persian Gulf
states whilst the comparable proportions for Nigerian crude oil became 45$ and 557° respectively.
(b) Total Community imports of crude oil
An examination of this cannot "be undertaken without "bearing it in mind that a comparison of data relative to two periods takes
no account of expansion,
increased consumption , which , in view of the economic it was normal to expect for the period October 1973
compared with October 1972 to March 1973 *
Nevertheless , subject to this qualification , imports from October 1972 to March 1973 (the reference period) can be compared with those from October 1973 "to March 1974 (Table ll)«
The total Community imports of crude oil were at substantially the same level during the crisis as during the reference period.
An analysis of the imports of individual countries shows some variations to this .
In Germany, imports rose during the first two months of the crisis. The rise was due both to the desire of the oil companies
to shield themselves against the effects of the embargo on crude oil exports to Rotterdam, which is the source of most German imports
of refined products from Community countries (nearly "JO $), and
to the attractiveness of the German market, where the level of
prices allowed the largest profit margin.
By January 1974» "the German market was saturated and imports began to fall off. Total German imports over the crisis period were 2 $ below those of the reference period.
In the Netherlands, the effects of the embargo began to be felt seriously in December 1973 v/hen crude imports fell to roughly 50fa of the October level. By January, however, the supply situation in Rotterdam began to brighten as a result of the arrangements
made by the large international companies to reroute,mainly through the United Kingdom, certain quantities intended for their Rotterdam refineries .
lietherland ; Belgium
Grude oil imports from non-member countries
- 12,6 - 13,0 (a/ including Ireland, whore no monthly i'ir^ures are available
31.812 15.453 Difference in yb
Ultimately, Dutch supplies during the crisis were 12,6% "below those of the reference period.
In Belgium, despite the country's partial dependence on Rotterdam for supplies of crude oil by the Rotterdam-Antwerp pipeline , imports developed along different lines than in the Netherlands .
The fall in crude oil imports only became apparent in February 1974» i"t increased in March when the oil companies lost interest in the
Belgian market, where the maximum prices imposed by the. Government did not allow them to operate profitably.
In Denmark, .the embargo had the same effects on imports as in the Netherlands, but this had no.perceptible impact outside the country since Denmark is not an exporting country.
On the other hand, the existence of price controls undoubtedly led the companies to reduce their purchases of crude oil as in Belgium.
Italy, in contrast, imported a little more crude oil during the crisis than during the reference period, the reason being that the • companies continued to exploit their Italian surplus refining capacity on the export market (Italian exports of finished oil products rose by 1jo over the reference period; see Table 14)*
The United Kingdom also increased its crude oil imports, but to a nuch greater degree than Italy (l0«6jo). The ree.son for this was that the companies were using their British refineries to make up for the temporary loss of output in Rotterdam caused by the embargo .
France was able to continue a normal supply pattern, and its refineries
(°) Quantities of crude oil refined ( Table 12)
During the first six months of the crisis, the volume of crude oil processed in Community refineries was 303 million tonnes as compared with 305 million tonnes during the reference period.
The Netherlands and Belgium witnessed a sharp drop of 13/6 and IO70 respectively in refining activity .
Prance and the United Kingdom , on the other hand , refined greater volumes than in the previous year.
( d ) Supplies to Jfiuropoan companies with inadequate sources of crude oil
I11 times of crisis, it might be feared tnat companies not having enough crude oil of their own to keep their refineries running at capacity would "be fa-ced with supply difficulties.
On the whole, these companies did not suffer from a shortage of crude oil during the crisis .
Germany Italy
(a) Excluding Ireland, where no monthly figures are available
Différence in %
- i Ireland i |
Petrofina, wmch has no resources of its own, had. for several years been obtaining supplies from BP Trading under a long-term contract. ]3P and. Petrofina own and operate the SIBP refinery at Antwerp on a ^O/^O basis.
,A comparison during the entire crisis period of Bp's deliveries to its own refining subsidiary, Anglo-beige des Petroles (ABP), and to Petrofina shows that deliveries to Petrofina developed in the same way as those made to ABP.
In 1973 , AGIP-ENI was prevented , to varying degrees , from exporting its production of crude oil by certain producing countries,with Iran blocking as much as 69/o of its production.
Of nearly 18 million tonnes produced outside Italy, AGIP was able to ship only 10,6 million tonnes that year.
Daring the crisis,the proportion of its supplies accounted for by its own production fell steadily from 36/i in October 1973 to 29$ in I-Iarch 1974*
Kence, AGIP was forced to buy more crude oil on the free market,
in other words, outside that part of the market governed by participation agreements. It pa,id a, higher price for the crude oil which it obtained than that paid by the integrated international companies , which have the best supplies of crud.e oil . The difference ■was between 10 and 20p.
Montedison had no supply difficulties since it was able to buy on the free market and pass the price difference on in products used in the petrochemical industry where there were no price controls .
Judging by the development of stocks held by Veba's refineries in Germany , which rose "between October 1973 and March 1974 » Veba does not appear to have experienced any difficulties with its supplies , which were assured, on the one hand, by its contracts with Mobil end BP and, on the other hand, by its own sources and its purchases elsewhere. For these latter purchases, Veba had to pay higher
(e) Quantities of refined products supplied to the doi.icstic market ( domestic consumption ) ( see Table 13 )
The stability of crude oil supplies, quantities refined and stocks held meant that the available quantities of finished products
lso remained highly stable .
None the less, supplies of oil in the common market during the crisis were 5 lower then those of the reference period. However, exports to non-member countries rose by the same proportion. This resulted undoubtedly from the combined effect of energy-saving measures introduced in Community countries, a slight reduction in industrial activity and the attraction of world market prices.
The reaction of the oil companies to price controls also had repercussions on the extent to which the domestic markets of certain member countries continued to receive supplies.
Domestic supplies of oil products
-5,9-10,2 Jixci.uG.mg Ireland . v.'; le rc no monthly figures are .available
 In the Netherlands ana .Belgium, m particular, the drop in supplies was partly due to the reluctance of the companies to supply products at the rather low maximum prices set "by the Government. Domestic heating oil was the hardest hit.
In Germany, escalating prices m February 1974 acted as a "brake
on consumption, especially of domestic heating oil and diesel fuel. Quantities were available but the demand was no longer there .
(f) Total Community exports and imports of finished oil products (see Tables 14 a and 14 "b)
Table 14 a (total exports) includes for each Community country:
- supplies to 'other Community countries - exports to non-member countries.
Table 14 b (total imports) includes for each Community country:
- imports from other Community countries - imports from non-member countries.
The figures given in the column for the Community thus cover trade within the Community (Tables 14a and 14b), Community exports to non-member countries (Table 14 a) and Community imports from non- member countries (Table 14 b).
Total Community exports (to member countries and non-meraber countries) fell by only 5.8fo in the crisis period compared with the corresponding
months of the year before, which demonstrates that they were hardly affected by events in the I-Iiddle East .
However, the fall was sharper in two traditional exporting countries, the Netherlands and Belgium, which felt the effects of the embargo imposed on Rotterdam.
Italy ,
iíethe risnås
Ireland .
1 Community 1 (a)
i JI!.! Sbccluding Ireland, wnerc no montnly fibres are available
France Italy iíether- Belgium Luxembourg United Ireland Denmark Isnds Fir.^ora
1 Community (a)
31,3 -36,3 0,6 23,5 3,8 a) 'ixoluding Ireland, where no Eontiily figures are available
I.750 4.725 3.710 Difference in %
This reduction in exports from Belgium and the Netherlands was offset "by increased exports from Germany in particular. The
increase in German exports (45^ more in March 1974 than in March 1973) can "be explained in part by the fall-off in demand . on the domestic market at the end of the crisis in March 1974.
This can also be attributed to the mild winter, to the fact that there was some consumption of industrial and domestic stocks and
to the end of a period of panic over shortages which had begun' in
October 1973 and which, for a number of months, had triggered off
an abnormally heavy demand. /
The sura of the total imports of Community countries fell by 15.8^. However , German imports , which during the crisis period represented 43/j of total Community imports, remained virtually static as compared with the reference period (- 0.2/j).
Significant reductions occurred in French, Italian and British imports.
For the Community as a whole, the crisis resulted in a clear slowdown of trade in oil products, with a fall-off in both total exports and total imports.
During the crisis the exporting activities of Rotterdam and, to a lesser extent , Antwerp , were drastically curtailed .
(g) Intra-Coinmunity trade in oil products (see Tables 15 a a-nd •:
If we take 1972 as a normal year, see that intra-
Connnmity trade rose in 1973 5.r.& then foil in 1S-)'':,t>o"fc>i these years being affected by a three-month period of the crisis .Sven after the end of the crisis , continuing effects can be seen .
Intra-Community trade in all oil products 1972 , 1973 and 1*74
Netherlands X
Imports by country of origin as a uercerrta^e of Community imports oí oil uroQuctè'
"ly/ü, WVA and 197/1
Netherlands
If we compare the percentages of each member state of total .intra- Community exchanges, we will see that they remained much the same.
Changes have occured, however, in the sources of supply of a number
of countries" which import oil products . (
In 19(4» Germany imported slightly less from the Netherlands and a little more from France and Italy, On the other hand, the crisis resulted in a reduction of French imports from Italy, These imports had previously "been affected to a large extent "by independent French companies , which , at the behest of the French Government , changed their sources of supply and started buying from refineries in France.
On the other hand, Dutch exports to Italy rose at the expense of French exports .
The crisis modified trade in oil products between the two sides of the Channel: there was an increase first in Dutch imports from the United Kingdom and then in British imports from the Netherlands.
However, the crisis did not have a significant effect on the most voluminous and most consistent trade flow, exports from Rotterdam to
Germany, despite the slight increase in German imports from Italy and France .
Quite a pronounced increase was seen in Danish imports from Germany,
marking the new links now being forged between the Danish and German markets .
Lastly, the crisis resulted in a permanent diminution in the volume
of intra-Cominunity trade of about 5 i° (1972 as compared vdth the average for 1973 andl974).
 - 74 - The Rotterdam free market
The role played "by Rotterdam in intra-Community trade and in trade "between the Community and the rest of the world merits some special observations.
The Rotterdam market, supplied predominantly by local refineries belonging to the major companies, is the source of most intrar- Community trade - nearly 50 % in 1973 (see Table 15 b).
The market is important not only because of the volume of transactions made there, but also because of the nature of the market.
In 1973» Dutch exports of oil products totalled nearly 42 million tonnes. A substantial part of these exports is sold on the free market.
This free market can be defined as the ni3,rket in oil products exported from the Netherlands which are not the subject of transfers within the same company or of trade in kind between companies, but which require the services of a jobber. Forty percent of this market is accounted for'by products refined outside the Netherlands (Italy, Belgium, France, Germany, United Kingdom, USSR) and sixty percent
is accounted for by Dutch-refined products.
Although the volume of sales from this market to destinations in countries of the Community is not really considerable since it represents only approximately 3 $ of the total Community consumption of oil products, it nevertheless assumes in a period of market pressure, a special importance despite its marginal character.
If the term "free market" is defined as set forth above, then 20 million tonnes of petroleum products were sold on the free market of Rotterdam in 1973» Out of these 20 million tonnes, more than 50 i3
(over 10 million tonnes) was exported to Germany (about one third of German imports from the Community). Of the rest, between 5 suid- 6 million tonnes were exported to non-member countries (mainly to USA, Switzerland and Sweden) and between 4 5 million tonnes went to other common market countries.
Initially, these latter exports may seem surprising "because they were , at least in part , to countries where maximum price were in force. However, although it would appear that the importing companies had incurred a loss, these marginal imports nevertheless enabled the companies to solve the problem of a shortage of certain products (e.g. gas oil and diesel fuel),
which are not obtained in sufficient quantities in the refineries, and to avoid producing products for which there would have been
no market if additional quantities of crude oil hsd been refined.
The following approximate picture emerges from a breakdown of the products handled on the Rotterdam free market :
A substantial proportion of the middle distillates is exported from the Netherlands by way of the Rotterdam free market.
As a basis for the calculation of tax and royalty payments due to
a producing country from the oil companies,a price is determined
for concession crude oil which is known as the "posted nrice". «
This posted price is a reference value determined purely for accounting purposes and may or may not correspond to the market price of the crude oil .
The part played by the "posted price" and its relation to the actual costs,-' including taxes paid to the producing country ("tax paid costs"), incurred by an oil company in making a
barrel of concession oil available for shipment to its refineries can be summarized as follows .
1. A "posted price" per barrel of concession crude oil is declared by the producing country as a basis for the calculation of tax and royalty payments .
2. Prom this posted price are deducted:
- the production costs of the oil company, including transport costs
to the point of loading j and
- royalties due from the oil
respect of concession oil :
agreements between the oil
in which they operate , amount to 12,5?° of the posted price of a barrel of crude oil .
company to the producing country in these royalties , based on long-standing companies and the producing countries
3. The sum remaining after this deduction of production costs
and royalty payments from the posted price is used as the base sum for calculating the taxes due from the oil company to the producing country: they amount to 55% this base sum.
4. By this stage in the calculation, three items have been deducted from the posted price - production costs, royalties and taxes.
The total of these three items constitutes the "tax paid cost" to
the oil company concerned of one barrel of concession crude oil .
In the following example (Table 16), a comparison is made between tne posted price and the corresponding tax paid costs of one oil company in October 1973 and January 1974*
Tax paid cost price of concession crude oil of the type "Arabian Lifht"
Costs of production (item 2 above) 0,10
Royalties (l2,5'/a of posted price: 0j6á Item 2) 0,74
Base sum for calculation of taxes (item 3)
Taxes (¡35/3 of base sum above: 2,41 Item3)
(b) Cost of access to crude oil of the 1ε,τρ-e companies
Tne cost of access is a weighted average of the prices paid by the companies depending on the type of crude oil .
In the case of concession crude oil the cost is calculated, as above, from the posted price.
January 1974
The price at which participation oil can be bought back by the . oil companies is also related to the posted price, but in a
period of short supply it might be above the price of concession oil .
The posted price was initially increased by about 75/£ about mid- October 1973, and with effect from 1 January 1974 it was raised again, by I3O7S. This resulted in the cost of crude oil being multiplied almost fivefold in the course of a year: in fact the average price of crude oil from the Middle Mast,which was f> 2 ' per barrel during the third quarter of 1973, had already increased to ft 9»43 per barrel by the first quarter of 1974-
Tiie average cost of crude oil per barrel is determined on the basis of the proportions of concession oil and participation oil fixed by the participation agreement with the producing country concerned. This average cost is normally used by the oil companies in determining the price at which crude oil is made available to companies in their group.
In the view of the Commission,the complexities surrounding the
application of the various concepts of participation oil and
concession oil at the basic stage in the commercial pperations
introduce a factor of uncertainty. It would appear that the average
cost determined in this way, on the basis of fixed proportions of concession oil and participation oil, may not always correspond to
the true average cost , as these proportions may not always correspond
to the actual proportions of participation oil and concession oil taken
by the oil companies. It will thus be seen that if a company includes
in a given period a higher proportion of lower-priced concession oil
than of participation oil which has been bought back at higher prices, its average costs will be correspondingly lower,
The following tables (Tables 17 a to 17 e) relate to a major interna­ tional company. They give the costs of concession oil and buybaclc prices for participation oil in respect of various types of crude oil during
the period from the first quarter of 1973 to the first quarter of 19/4* Tables 18 a and 18 b show, for eleven types of crude oil acquired by this
company, a comparison of the average costs per barrel with the prices at v;hich the company transferred crude oil to its refineries .
 1nt CT.AFT?R ; Cost of crude oil to a major international company 1973 . :
Type of crude
Equity cost
(a) Defined on page 58
(b) This company bought no state oil (c) Weighted for quantities bought;
' TABLE 17 (b) Cost of crude oil to a major international company
Tyris of nf".de
Equity cost
(b) Weighted for quantities bought;
(c) Quantities buyable in excess of contract.
Type of crud . -·
- 81 - TABLE 17 (c) Cost of crude oil to a major international company
Equity cost
Defined on page 58.
) - equity 1,97
b) In September 1973,the producing countries set the buvback price at 93a> of the posted price , abandoning the bridging/ phase-in method of calculation used hitherto .
c) Weighted for quantities bought; see pp. 77-78. Quantities buyable in excess of contract.
Type of crude
TABLE 17 (à) Cost of crude oil "to a major international company
Equity cost
Equity bu/back -
(a) In September 1973,the producing countrice set the LuyVack price at 93y- of the posteci price", abandoning the bridginc/phase-in method of calculation used hitherto'.
(bWeightedforquantitiesbought; seepp.77-78. (c) Quantities buyable in excess of contract.
Type of crude
' Cost of crude oil to a rp.a.ior international company
(a) Defined on page 77.
(t) Weighted for quantities bought; see pu* 77-78.
(c) Transfer prices of crude oil
Supplies of crude oil obtained "by the oil companies are distributed "between associated refining companies and a price is attributed to such supplies for accounting purposes "between the companies concerned. This price is known as the " transfer price 11 of crude oil. It is usually- settled on the basis of the fob cost price plus a transfer margin (Tables 18 (a) and (b) ). This transfer margin represents an allowance made by
the company at the outset which is subsequently reflected at all stages
in the price of oil products . It is intended , in theory ,
the company 's costs , but , in fact , it is internal to the
and it is difficult to say what its precise function is.
transfer price is essentially a price fixed by an oil company on the
basis of its own mechanisms for use within its own group of companies,
but it constitutes for the refineries a significant factor in their costs.
The Commission has compared the monthly weighted average fob transfer prices of eleven companies with respect to their refineries in the
Community for two types of crude oil , Arabian Light 34° API and Iranian Light 34° API "^. It generally noted that price levels vary from group to group
and that the average prices for some international groups (those with adequate or surplus supplies of crude oil ) are lower. This is explained by the higher proportion of cheaper concession crude oil in their cost calcu­ lations. Among the large international groups, the variations between their respective price levels are relatively slight and are attributable either to the sources of the crude oil or to a policy of differentiating the transfer prices according to destinations.
l) On grounds of confidentiality the figures are not included in this report.
to cover part of group concerned
Thus the
 Type of crude
+♦41 (a) See last column of Tables 17 a - c.
c: T" t.^Icc Ci'f a n?, ioi*
+.30 3.87 w See last colran of Tables 17 d - e.
Analysing the Community countries individually, it v;ill be observed that the prices of two of the majors were the same whatever
the destination of their crude within the Community. The prices of another three display differences from one country to another which are due to
overlapping of the prices applied during each month.
The prices of one of the large international companies differed substantially between the countries of the common market. According to the company concerned , the reasons for these differences relate primarily to the prevailing conditions on the various markets.
The prices paid by two European companies, which have inadequate supplies of crude oil under their own control, were, on an average, 10-20^ higherthanthosepaidbylargeinternationalcompanies. Thedifferences
were sometimes even greater : Arabian Light, February 1974» Germany, a 36 $ difference; March 1974» Italy, a 31 5° difference.
Overall, with respect to the two types of crude studied,
price differences between groups and between countries reflect both differences in the companies' siipplies of crude oil and certain differences
between conditions existing in the various countries.
These differences between transfer prices are in a way arbitrary and do not reveal strategies being practised by each group. Nevertheless, the transfer price system does permit some apportionment of income from one country to another or from one continent to another in pursuance of the policies of the groups.
(d) Crude oil prices for certain European companies with inadequate supplies of crude oil.
The supplies of European companies which are short of crude oil were studied in more detail for three companies in Belgium and Italy.
In Belgium, an independent company obtained its supplies from a large international company under a "basic contract which set prices by reference to the latter1s production costs plus a profit margin.
The invoiced prices paid by the independent company were lower than those invoiced to the subsidiaries of the, large international company.
In Italy, no system of transfer pricing for crude oil is in operation by the large companies which operate refineries but which do not belong to any of the large international oil companies. To afford some comparison with the transfer prices applied by the large interna­ tional companies, some information is given below on the import prices for crude oil in Italy.
The import prices for crude oil paid by "two Italian companies
were based on the monthly notifications in the"Istituto Centrale di
the fob costs of each type of crude oil were also quoted. However, these
do not refer to the day of loading but are based on an average of all »
quantities imported in the course of a month, so that these prices cannot be compared exactly x^ith the transfer prices charged by other companies.
It can nevertheless be seen that the two companies paid higher prices than the major international companies , especially as they bought more on the free market .
A comparison of the average prices of these two Italian companies for two of their main types of imported crude oil shows that up to July 1973j "the crude oil prices of the companies varied onlj"- minimally beti^een each other, although one of the companies showed average prices which tended to be somewhat higher than those of the other company.
From September 1973 , however , the prices paid by the first company were ,
in general,significantly greater than those paid by the second,and the reason for this may bo associated with the differing commercial motivations of the
tv.!o companies . One company operates the more usual commercial policy of a large integrated oil company, that is, purchasing crude oil with the intention of producing from it a large range of oil products for distribution through
its own networks . The other company , on the other hand , purchases supplies
of crude oil primarily for the production of basic material for further processing in the chemical plants of its own group.
The first company, whose refinery capacity greatly exceeds that of the second company, concluded supply contracts on a long-term "basis in an attempt to ensure adequate supplies of crude oil for its refinery programme, and
the operation of the price escalation clauses in such contracts resulted
in the application of the significantly higher prices from September 1973«
On the other hand, the second company did not rely on long-term contracts "but tend'ed tc purchase its supplies of crude oil in smaller quantities arid at times v:hen it could obtain them at a lower price ; it therefore avoided
the effect of price escalation clauses in contracts.
The previous sections of this part of the report dealt with the pricing of crude oil. This section considers prices at subsequent stages
in the chain of production and distribution of oil products. It will
deal with the factors which are taken into account in determining transfer * prices for refined products and will analyse the application of these
factors in the method adopted "by some major oil companies for the calculation of prices .
■ Oil products are distributed by oil companies mainly along
- consumption on the domestic market of tho country in which the refinery is situated ;
- distribution to companies in the same oil group in other countries - sale to third parties in other -countries .
1 . Prices on domestic markets
So far as the first route is concerned, the introduction of
price control in several countries of the EEC meant that the prices of
refined products on the domestic market were no longer subjict to the
normal market forces during the period of the oil crisis. In some member states (in the Netherlands, for example) only the price to the customer was controlled, but in other countries (for example, France) the controlling regulations extended to the ex-refinery prices of products well as to
the prices to the consumer. One of the aims of this latterTorm of price control was to permit a viable margin to the independent distributors -of -- - - oil products, and, whilst the extent'of'the margin available^^i distributors was frequently criticized, nevertheless it helped to reduce
the severe difficulties which ,were encountered by independent distributors .
Imposition of maximum prices for the consumer proved
effective in controlling the upward spiral in the costs of oil products during the oil crisis hut also injected a degree of unreality into the market for oil products in those countries. Thus the prices fixed for certain oil products often "bore no relation to the actual costs of the ir production, given the increases in the prices of crude oil.
Direct comparison of prices "between the different countries of ,the. Communityisdifficulttecauseprioesarequotedinthedifferent
currencies. of the countries, concerned and parity of currency changed ^several'times"duringtheperiodunderreview* ,;Inaddition,nouniform unit of quantity is used. It is nevertheless possible to describe the
domestic price situation in the various countries of the Community. %
Netherlands
So far as the sale of oil products on the domestic market is concerned, maximum prices were authorized by the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the basis of proposals submitted by the oil companies acting through
the 01ie Contact Commissie. The Ministry had the right, if it was of the opinion that certain price increases seemed excessive or ir.ere otherwise unacceptable, to request the oil companies to modify their proposals for price adjustment. The regulation concerning prices for oil products was issued on 22 January 1974*
Maximum prices were proposed "by oil companies on the basis of the following factors :
- fob price of the product on the international free market compiled from Piatt 's Oilgram (see page II4) in "the following proportions :
These percentages may sometimes vary, depending on the product.
Price on the Rotterdam free market
- price of sea transport, based on the AFRA tariff; * - transport insurance and transport losses ;
Table 21 shows, for three products, the market prices which were in operation, compared with the maximum prices authorized by the Dutch Government; prices are expressed in Dutch guilders. ;
The difference between the market price and maximum price was, in previous years, generally small. However, on 15 November 1973, the difference f°r heavy fuel oil was already 72.88 guilders, par tonne and it reached its maximum level on 22 January 1974, when it was'138.12 guilders
pertonne. ThesefiguresshowhowpricessoaredontheRotterdamfreemarket during the crisis months. ""
The dealers' margin for sales from filling stations of petrol and diesel fuels was also deteiWined by representatives of the oil industry in cooperation with BOVAG (Bond van Automobiel-en Garagenbedrijven) and accepted
bytheGovernment. Ontheotherhand,nofixedmarginsofprofitsexisted* for light and heavy fuel oil.
* Average Freight Rate Assessments (see Page 113)
As, in the Netherlands, maximum prices were fixed by the Government only at the level of the consumer, no controls applied to
the ex-refinery prices . Distribution margins for the retailer for petrol and diesel fuels were fixed as a result of agreements reached between the oil companies and the trade organizations. They were therefore accepted rather than approved by the Dutch Government. Two results emerged from this absence of controlled prices at the refinery level. Firstly, there was a considerable variation between the ex–refinery prices operated by the oil companies due in particular to the different markets to which the products were destined. A further result was the difficulty encountered
Jby. independent wholesale dealers*who operated exclusively in the. Netherlands, when certain oil companies fixed' their ex-refinery- prices so close to the maximum prices thai the margins "to the wholesalers were excessively reduced.
The calculation of prices in order to fix maximum prices at
the consumer level was based on"the price structure drawn up by the Belgian Oil Federation (Federation Petroliere Beige - FPB). Maximum prices were
fixed for oil products by a
net price ex-refinery tax on oil products
market price to the consumer
The net price ex-refinery was obtained by assuming that the product had been imported as a final product - the system described as 1import parity'. This system takes into account the following cost items :
- minimum price fob Carribbean Sea or Gulf of Mexico, according to quotations in Piatt 's Oilgram (see page IZ4.) ;
- sea freight, based on AFRA, by "medium-range" tanker for the distance
^^^ riiinsurance^ainstdamageVand^losséBCirf.trajisit^f'; – charges for duty and inspection.
The margin must cover the cost of distribution and delivery to the consumer. When sales are made without intermediaries the margin is retained by the oil company.
The additional zone charge is necessary to cover the transport
cost from refinery to the dispatch depot . There are three zones : - zone 0 covers an area of 15 km around Antwerp;
- zone I comprises the rest of the province of Antwerp, East Flanders, Brabant and Tessenderlo ;
- zone II is the rest of the country.
The investigations confirmed that during the crisis, the maximum prices were respected and that the tariffs operated by the oil companies corresponded to these maximum prices , including the trade margins .
It was noted that, from 1972 to the middle of 1974, the margins
of the distributors became progressively smaller. the middl^-pf 1974» they were equal to the margins fixed by regulation, so that it was no longer possible to offer rebates .
The regulation of 30 June 1945 (Ordonnance No. 45-1483) empowered the public authorities to fix prices for goods and services. Besides petrol and gas oil , since 1973 light and heavy fuel oil for domestic and industrial use were also subject to the price system called "regime de cadre de prix" imposed by the Government. The intermediary trade does not establish its own price list and sales conditions but sells on the basis of the price lists of the trading associations , which are obliged to submit the price lists for each category of product to the appropriate authorities sqfas to enable the authorities , if they wish to raise an objection , to defer their entry into effect .
Formulation of the price lists is complex and I.J based on strict *
provisions . The price determination starts with the ex-refinery price , which is fixed by the refineries , under Government supervision , taking account of the following items :
- international quotations for oil products on certain markets(prices fob Carribbean according to Piatt 's Oilgram ) ;
- sea transport , based on AFRA ;
– cost of insurance and port dues.
Except for this common base, the pattern of pricing is different for each category of product even though the same elements of the market price for consumers remain the same (trade margins, taxes including the fee to the French Petrol Institute (IFP) which is in the nature of a levy, and rebates). The French market is split into zones, wlPich involves local extra charges and predetermined transport costs from the nearest refinery .
Spot-checks of invoices for domestic sales confirmed that the invoiced prices were in conformity with the maximum prices laid down bj law and that rebates "became increasingly smaller towards the end of 1973 and the "beginning of 1974»
The law introducing a new method of calculating official maximum prices in connection with the new system of taxation was introduced retroactively from 1 January 1973* The former system of *import parity1 was replaced "by the concept of costs of production. Three levels of these costs can .be distinguished - cost of raw material , refining costs and cost ofdistribution..^ Thecost<?frawmaterialistheaveragefobpriceofthe, imported crude oil plus the average transport cost. This price is apportioned between the final products according to a system based on the API scale for viscosity of the crude o$.l. Typical refining costs for refineries with full cycle are apportioned between the different oil products . The maximum price as fixed by the Comitato Interministeriale Prezzi (CIP maximum price) is applicable for the whole country without regard to the location of the refinery or depot and includes the processing tax (imposta di fabbricazione) as well as the profit margin for the retail trade .
The transport costs are fixed by the Comitato Interministeriale Prezzi and applied by regional price committees (Comitati Provinciali Prezzi, CPP) within the limits fixed by the Comitato Interministeriale Prezzi.
It may be mentioned in this connection that all the oil companies protested against what they claimed was a totally unrealistic price situation lasting for several months owing to the fact that during the crisis there was a time lag between the fixing of new maxiimfiff-prices for oil products and the impact of price increases for crude oil.
Because of the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union and the
fact that the great majority of petroleum products comc^from Belgian refineries, the regulations in these two countries are largely the same.
The Law of 30 June 1961 empowers the Minister of Economic Affairs to determine prices which must not be exceeded under penalty ,of sanctions. A price office is entrusted with supervision and may, if necessary, examine the bookkeeping anjlc invoices ; ^ As' in Belgium , any price increase may be proposed by the oil companies, on the basis^ of the "import parity"
For a long time - in fact, up to the start of 1970 - these
provisions hardly applied, since the market prices were always below the maximum prices . At the end of 1970 , however , the Minister rejected the proposals of the oil companies and froze the maximum prices in the belief
that the proposed increases could be made up for by dispensing with the discounts previously granted to customers.
The oil market in Denmark is supplied by private enterprises , mainly the Danish subsidiaries of international oil concerns. Their predominance is more evident on the market for ligfrt products than on the market for residual oils , where independent suppliers and a few major consumers make up an appreciable portion of the market.
. The prices of products are, subject, to the lefeal provisions
.Control i!Act;.and>theLPrices :^d profit enforced ";. vi J ; .by the Monopolies . Control Authority .;-. : -r :-. -V ■
Until October 1970» control was based on the Monopolies Act in »
the form of a standard calculation system set up under an agreement between the Monopolies Control Authority and the three largest oil companies in the Danish market. The calculation system did not include heavy fuel oil.
From October 1970, prices of oil products came within the provisions of the Price Stabilization Act and from April 1$71 those of the Prices and Profits Act , 1971 * The standard calculation rules of the Prices and Profits Act resulted in lower selling prices for oil products in Denmark than in most other Western European countries .
In November 1973» the oil companies were granted an exemption from the Prices and Profits Act in order to reduce the negative effects that the relatively low selling prices in Denmark might have on the supply of
oil products . By the terms of this exemption, the oil companies were permitted to calculate their selling prices on the basis of ^ rrent
replacement costs for crude oil or imported products instead'"of the costs actually incurred. This arrangement is maintained under the new Prices and
As Ireland is completely dependent on imports, whether crude oil or refined products , prices are basically determined "by the prices on the international markets.
Since imports , refining and distribution are aandled by
privateenterprises, thesedevisetheirownpricingpoliciesand set their sales prices without direct state intervention.
However, price"^.«icreases have to be approved by the Department -of Industry and Commerce, after applications have been, examined by ;
the National Prices Commission. This latter body, which includes a member appointed by the Association of Irish Housewives to represent consumers, makes recommendations to the Department of Industry and Commerce after each application for a price increase. The examinations are based on the following criterion: the increase must not exceed
the amount of the unavoidable and permanent rise in costs incurred
by the applicant company. At the end of 1972,the department decided, at the suggestion of the National Prices Commission, that no wholess-le price without tax for oil products would be permitted to exceed the corresponding price charged by the subsidiary or associated company in the "outer zones" of the United Kinjdom. In the absence of a subsidiary or associated company, the li.nit would be the standard wholesale price posted for the "outer zones'' of the United Kingdom.
Up to 1973 the prices for oil products were de?3r.nined solely by the oil companies. In spite of its holding in British Petroleum,
the state took no action in this area.
The market, therefore, was a free one, but three large inter­ national oil compani,«s^ accounting for over 6Cffo of total sales t exert a strong influence on the trend of prices. Consumers played only a marginal role and then only in negotiating individual contract^.
 conditions of consumption. -"'■*
Therewasnoofficialtariff, norwasthereanyobligationtopub'ish prices. The oil companies did, however, compile price listc at regular Liter vals and these were published in the specialised journals. Discounts were given on the listed prioes. The size of the discount varied with the size of the order, terms of delivery and the market situation.
From 1973- before any price increase for oil products can have effect
the oil companies are obliged to obtain authorization from the Price
Commission which pays particular attention to the margins. Prom December 1972
to December 1974» maximum retail prices were fixed for motor fuel. For- other
oil products the system of prior approval-'. .by the Price Commissibn remained inforce.' . . ' i---.
( 3y(reason,of./theveryvStructureof;supply,'itcanbe-said.that,this
;is;:i)iomo'geneQus/marlceiwhere:. pricedifferencesareslight^lycHir Similar
In Germany,the only market cn which a large number of suppliers actively competed with each othe^.. prices varied considerably between sup­ pliers, fromon® region to another and from one period to another.
These differences are illustrated in Tables 20a to 20e.
Even for a homogeneous product like petrol, which is also homogeneous from the distribution and utilization point of view, the prices of the large international oil companies to their distributors varied from 140 to 240 U"/ r3inDecember1973andfrom230to330DK/m3inKarch197!•
Price differences for other oil products were less striking but none­ theless appreciable. It is also interesting to note that whileprices to
independent dealers allowed them a substantial margin in Ocvober 1973» this
was gradually eroded over the crisis period to become negative on many occasions in March 1974»a-t least for light fuel oil^„, q-gc
Emerging from this review of the domestic prices for oil products is the fact that in those counties which introduced maximum price regulations during the oil crisis, varying degrees of concertation existed between*oil companies in so far as they participated through their trade associations in the fixing of maximum prices for oil products on their nationcl market cr
even in the submission of proposals to the public authorities concerning
There are in addition, with the possible exception of Italy, cerJ .vin factors used in the determination of prices, such as Piatt's Oilgram quotations and, in the case of Belgium, the Aruba/Curagao-Antwerp freight rate, which are not realistic in so far as they reflectnotional rather than the actual costs involved in the production of oil products.
TableslOa and b of Part II of the report list conrumer prices, both inclusive and exclusive of taxes, and reveal that one of the main conse­ quences of the disparity between the price policies of the member states was the extreme difference between the prices practised ?.n the countries of the Community. This necessarily distorted competition, although it is impossible, over the short period of the crisis to assess the real effect of this on production and VM.de.
On 23 November 1973» the domestic price for heating oil, inclusive of taxes, was $3l/m3 in Italy and $98 (over }0Cf?o higher) in the Netherlands.
On 31 April 1974) the domestic price for gas oil was $150/m3 in Denmark and $360 (.22>Ofo higher)in Germany.
Sales prices in Germany Cexolusive or^taxee) DM/m3 ι
Distributoraunder '73 . oim brand name ?
Distributora under own brand name
in Oirmanv ( exclusive of taxes).
\ Sales ptioes in Germany (eicluaiveof,taxes
Distributore ander ova brand nam· ;
Distributora under own brand ssra
Sales prices in uermaity (exoluslvé of^^MaiB) DM/m3
'Distributoreundex Town brand nam·
- Sales prices in Germany (exclusive of["taxes> m/t
The impact of transfer prices charged by a company for oil products on the price at which those products are actually sold on the market in the country of destination should not be overestimated. Whilst it would undoubtedly be preferable for the procedures for the calculation of transfer prices to be more readily seen to bear a relationship with ths actual costs incurred by an oil company, these procedures remain essentially domestic
to each oil group and, more particularly, to the accounting procedures between the various companies involved within that group. They were not ' seen to have a direct relationship with'fths final selling price for oil
productsbyanycompanyinany^gountryoftheCommunity, everGermany, where no controls on the prices of oil products were imposed by the
Government. Indeed, as will be noted later, the transfer prices for petrol of one company to an associated company in Germany were above the prices at which that company sold petro? on the German marke4 .
The system of determining the prices at which oil prodacts are transferred between companies within the same oil group in different countries varies considerably from"b'ne group to another : sorie oil companies vary their own system further, according to geograjhical areas within their field of operations.
One r..ajor international company investigated (Company l) '■z-cs-je its transferpricescnprices knownas"supplyprices"whicharcusedforall products covered by the enquiry with the exception of naphtha.Thes3 "supply- prices" are partly calculated by reference to the relevant q> otations in Piatt's Oilgram (seelater) but also take into account the c<. sts of crude oil, freight charges and refining costs.
Another company (Company F) referred to its transfer pgj-ces in Europe as "Channel zone" prices until January 1973 and based their calculation
exclusively on the relevant quotations.contained in PjLa^t's Cilgraqg.<From January 1972» a system known as "mixed export parity price" (MEP) replaced that of Channel zone prices and was applied to all transfers of oil products
to companies in the oil group of Company F, with the exception of- certain
deliveries to Belgium and to the German armed forces. The MEI1 can be described as a"composite price" since 25 ^ of it was based o.. the Piatt's Oilgram quotation for that prcd.uct and the remaining 75 $ was related to
yet another factor called the "term price".This term price '..as itself drav^i
from several cost items such as the price of crude oil, freight, refining costs and costs of storage.
-JHthecaseofCompanyA, the"transferpricesfoithesone of operations from Bordeaux to Hamburg were known as North -'.est Europe
(N^sE) prices. Here again, in the determination of the ICsiC prices, reference was made to Piatt's Oilgram quotations and to costs of crude oil, transport and insurance costs and costs of refining.
An impression of the complexity of the calculations applied to
obtain the transfer price may be gained from the following example, which sets out the procedure of one international company (company l)~^
In the case of this, company, the supply prices are agreed
monthlyr'and'.apply'to: deliveriefe'made.'on an&after;the first ■ day 'of^ ' ^ach.caiendar month.-They al-e derived from an agreed percentage of an'
all-in cost price plus a percentage of a spot price.
"The all-in cost price is arrived at Tjy :
(A) calcvlating the fob cost of one tonne of Arabian Light crude oil by multiplying the fob price of or.e barrel of Arabian Light crude oil (as agreed between Co.npany I and its Europe&ii affiliated companies &.s "being the fair arid coounercial price ruli..g on the
twenV-rthird of the preceding n.onth "'by the appropriate barx-el/
tonne factor, which unless otherwise agreed is 7-28:
l) In "the le:;t which follows, some types of crude oil, na>.es of ports and p> oducts have been replaced by numbers, for reason • of
confir entiality .
2) The tt.ru "preceding" month as used in this procedure i;j interpreted as being the calender monlh prior to that for which tho supply price is being calculated­
vr ) adding to tho ocs+ of one toxins of Arabian Lie*-"- cruz o the appropriate ^roight fro.u Fort cf loading 1 to Rotterdam, thus
arriving at C i ? cost of the crude at Rotterdam. The appropriate freight is that for 7LCCs (''cry Larre Crude Carriers);
It ft tt
C) calculating the fob cost of one tmn: of Type 2 cri.ie cil by arltiplyinj '/..o fob price of one barrel of Type 2 cru.dc oil as agreed betve*a the nonpanivs
as"beingthofairandcommercialpricerulingor. thetwenty-thirdofthe preceding month by the appropriate barrel/tonne factor, which i-nlccs otherwise agreed is 7-475
adding to the fob cost of one tonne of Type 2 crude the appropriate freight from Port of loading 2 to Rotterdam, thus arriving at a C ar,d F cost of t.xe cracle at Rotterdam. The appropriate freight is the AFRA rate for LF. (Long Range) vessels applicable during the preceding month}
calculating the C and F cost of a representative tonne of crude oil at Rotterdam by adding JCffo of the C and F cost of Arabian Light crude (as calculated in B) to 3Ofo of thei<C and F cost of Type 2 crude oil (as calculated
(F) calculating the all-in cost of the product yields (derived- from distillation/
platforming) of a representative tonne df crude.oil at Rotterdam "by adding S^.50 (as representing the cost of processing plus a reasonable return on capital) per tonne to the C and F cost of a representative tonne of crude oil as set cut in E.
'ill,1 . Tho product yields referred to are :
(c) calculate tfcj all-in ccst per tonne of each of tii-. individual p-odv.?-t3 by : 1. multiplying the percentage yields set cut in ? by the apprspriat-j Piatt's
Rotterdam Low quotation effective the ultimo of the preceding mouth;
2. adding together the result values, thus arriving at the va£u£(calculated at
Piatt's Rotterdam Lows) of 0.95 tonne of products derived from 1.0
tonne of crude oil;
3. the so-called list prices are arrive'd'at by multipJyir.g th2 Platt^s Low cf
each product by the ratio of all-in crude cost (as under l)/value of yield (as mentioned under G.2.).
-he Spot prices are the appropriate Pla+t's Rotterdam Lo- quotations effective per the ultimo of the preceding montr C 1 N "
The value to he used for the freight rates factor is generally "based on the indications of the costs of shipments
of oil known as Average Freight Rate Assessments (AFRA). These indices are established monthly by a group of shipping brokers operating from London who take into account the freight costs, on both a long and a short-term basis, effective during the pre­ vious month. Spot purchases as well as fixed term contracts are taken into consideration as are the costs of shipment by tankers operated by the oil companies themselves. The AFRA freight in­
dices are grouped according to the classification of the vessels. >
An example of the use of AFRA freight indices has been given above in the internal procedure of Company I for determining its supply prices. This stipulates that "the appropriate freight rate shall be the AFRA rate for LR 2 vessels applicable during the preceding month". (LR 2 = long range vessels class 2).
The AFRA scale is expressed in US dollars per long ton.
The APM prices for diesel fuel and petrol are established by the Aussenhandelsverband fur Mineralol , a group of independent importers based in Hamburg. Quotations are published by AFM week­
ly on the basis of the range of prices at which its members have concluded transactions for various types of diesel fuel and petrol . Although the AFM quotations are published in Piatt * s Oilgram (see below), they are perhaps less accepted for use by
the major oil companies. Unlike Piatt's own qupjtations, which,, are subject to daily cross-checks , the AFM quotations , being compiled weekly from a smaller number of transactions , tend to be less representative . ; '
 Piatt 's Oilgram quotations
Piatt's Oilgram is a daily oil price recording and reporting service by McGraw-Hill Publications , whose main
t office is in New York but which has agencies and associated companies throughout Europe and the rest of the world. Among
its daily topics are , for example , the prices at which trans­ actions in oil products have been made, including, so far as
Europe is concerned, bulk prices for cargoes fob Italy and for barges fob Rotterdam , for a range of oil products .
Unlike other world-wide commodities, such as copper or sugar, the prices of oil products are not quoted on any international ex- ch.%/. , hzr. the Piatt 'e Oil 'rj.c-atior.s , although unofficial , have acquires some significance as a market indicator. They are used ex­
tensively by oil companies in determining their transfer and sale prices. Governments have also taken the quotations into consideration when determining their prices for oil products.
The "basis of the pricing service consists of the acquisition
of information about transactions not only of the major oil companies „ but also of independent dealers and brokers in principal oil centres. It has been assessed that the majority of the information is obtained from major oil companies. In Europe, the Piatt's Oilgram Pricing Service has
an office in Brussels from which, each week, contact is made with a number of oil firms, dealers and brokers in the Netherlands to obtain recent prices for transactions in oil products together with some im­ pression of market trends. The information thus collected is trans­
mitted weekly to New York. Every day the coordinator of the infor­
mation in New York telephones to some ten oil companies and dealers
in the Rotterdam area to ensure that the information is as up to date
as possible. A similar collecting service for information about oil trans­ actions operates from London. Information about transactions in Italy is obtained in a similar fashion.
Apart from quotations collected from their own sources, Piatt's Oilgram publishes the APT! prices for petrol and diesel fuel .
As has already been seen, one of the steps in the determination by Company I of its transfer prices requires the percentage yields of certain oil products to be multiplied "by the appropriate'Piatt's Rotterdam Low quotation effective the ultimo of the preceding month", and 25$> of the MEP price operated by Company P wak- based on quotations
Piatt's Oilgram quotations.in calculating the base costs from which
the NWE price was determined (see p.109), and this had the clear effect of in­ creasing these base costs and accordingly the NWE price. Thus the base
costs in December 1973, bearing the influence of Piatt's Oilgram quo­
tations, were almost 15$ higher than they would otherwise have been.
Tables 21 and 22 show the breakdown of the base costs of Company A and Company I , together with the effect on these costs of the use of Piatt's Oilgram quotations.
Comparison of transfer prices for oil products
In the course of the enquiries, the Commission requested from oil companies the average monthly prices at which they exported oil products to their associated companies in other countries of the Com­
For super petrol (see Table 2'3,), whilst very slight variation
is to be found between the transfer prices charged by Company F^for example, other companies show a tendency to apply prices which are distinctly higher for certain countries than for others.
In the case of Germany, the transfer prices charged by one company for super and regular petrol were higher than the prices charged by its subsidiary on the German market#
date . of . applicati
iNri'JEKCB 0? PIATT 'S OXIGRAM QUOTATION'S o?i th:c bas£ costs c? company i
month. of . at>pxication
Wetheriartl'9""-^·
Germany Belgium
Belgium "Netherlands 48.- 79.35
Netherlands
Belgiern Netherlands
Germany Belgium
Belgium Netherlands Luxembourg
Iuxerabourg 65,27 65,- Denmark 5';. 10
Netherlands Germany 61,SO 77,-
Netherlands
Ireland 62.- &0.12
Netherlands 'i59.~ 139,42
Netherlands Germany 115.- United Kingdom 139,52
Belgium Netherlands 159,- 162,94
NB. : These are monthly average prices^ so the raising of transfer prices during the course of a month could explain slight differences among common market countries*
 As regards the transfer price of gas oils and light fuel oils (which have not been tabulated because the variety of definitions
fromcountrytocountrymakescomparisondifficult), acon?- sistently higher price to Germany was noticeable for most oil com­
panies in respect of comparable qualities : B in October and November 1973 i C in November 1973 , F, G, H and J all offer examples .
In respect of aircraft fuel, in his review in September 1974 of
the state of the world air transport industry, the Director General
of the International Air Transport Association (IATA) said that un­
til 1973»T"the costs of fuel had represented about 12$ of the total
costs of the airline industry but that this percentage had risen by
July 1974 to over 25%• By that time the cost of aircraft fuel had in­ creased over threefold from its level"»before the crisis, and because
of the huge quantity of fuel consumed by aircraft, the airlines' total operating costs had soared as a result of the escalation in fuel prices. He went on to suggest that aircraft fuel had been priced at a higher level than was necessary, particularly as compared with other oil products. The Commission noted this situation and observations which
had been made elsewhere expressing concern at the effect on the aii*- lines, particularly on their prices. No formal complaints,
however, had been made to the Commission by individual airlines about their situation concerning supplies of aircraft fuel. Contact was made with the European Airlines Research Bureau, the organization represent­ ing the collective interest of European based airlines, in the hope that it would make a representative comment to the Commission on behalf of
its member airlines on any problems which European airlines were ex­ periencing from the point of view of supplies or prices , but it did not do so.
The Commission subsequently decided to include aviation fuel among the products covered by the supplementary questionnaire which wasGsent out to oil companies during the course of the inquiry. Besides confirm­ ing a steep increase of price during the oil crisis, the resulting data shows a considerable disparity between the prices at which aircraft fuel was sold: this difference applies not only between companies but also between countries of destination . Thus , in November 1973 , whilst delive­ ries were being made, by Company F to Germany at a price of $74*15 Per
■tonne, the prices charged by Companies H and J were $138 per tonne and $101.61 per tonne respectively. Again, in December 1973, deliveries were
made by Company I to Germany from a refinery in the Netherlands at the then particularly low price of $40.11 per tonne, whilst deliveries to the same destination from refineries in the Netherlands were made by Company H at $185 per tonne and by Company J at $113.83 per tonne. On several occasions during the oil crisis,Denmark appears to have re­ ceived aircraft fuel at prices which were significantly lower than
the prices charged by the same oil group to destinations in other member states. In December'1973, for example, Company I delivered suppliestoDenmarkat$47 pertonnewhilstitschargestoBelgiumand the United Kingdom were $94*19 and $91*62 per tonne respectively. And again, in February 1974» the same company provided aircraft fuel to Denmark at a price of $84*99 per tonne whilst its deliveries to Ger­ many, Belgium and the United Kingdom were invoiced at $94*80 per tonne, $94*33 per tonne and $114*24 per tonne respectively.
Commenting in September 1975 on the effects of oil price increases on the operations of international airlines, the President of the Inter­ national Air Transport Association accused the oil companies of being unfair to airlines and indicated that studies commissioned by IATA had
shown that the increases imposed by oil companies on the prices of jet fuel had been about 10% higher than the increases for other oil products. The contracting and supply arrangements between airlines and the oil com­ panies are themselves sufficiently complex to constitute the grounds for a separate inquiry, and this and further discussions with the parties concerned would be necessary before any firm conclusion can be based
on the differences noted.
It is difficult to offer general conclusions about the systems of calculating transfer prices which the Commission encountered during its inquiries , because of the variety of procedures involved . Some companies , notably Companies A and I , operated a system of transfer prices which was based on a standard price applicable to all countries in the Community and to which differentials were applied to reflect particular market situations. Company A applied differentials to take account of transport costs to destinations outside the zone to which its basic transfer prices related. Other companies recognized that some account was taken of"t[he market situation in the country of des­
and this
capacity , had introduced no price controls for oil products .
would explain , Germany , which ,
at least partially , the higher . apart from being deficient in
The accusation of absence of reality can be levelled at several aspects of the system of calculating transfer prices. The product
yield used in the procedure of Company I for the calculation of its supply prices does not necessarily relate to the percentages of each product produced from 1 tonne of crude oil by that company but to
the average yield expected from a typical refinery with an average capacity of 180,000 barrels per stream day (that is, about 9 million tonnes per year). Company A,at one stage in the calculation of its transfer prices, uses a yield of nine products from 1 tonne of crude oil which is representative of the European consumption of those pro­ ducts rather than of its own sales or of the yield actually obtained in its own refineries . Similarly , for freight costs , in the calculations AFRA quotations take the place of the actual shipping costs incurred
by a company.
The inclusion of quotations from Piatt's Oilgram is another factor
in the calculation of transfer prices which does not relate to a com­ pany's own situation. In fact, during the oil crisis the prices!-given by Piatt's quotations largely reflected the conditions on the intern- national market since the oil market of Rotterdam (from which, as has
been mentioned earlier, much of the data for the compilation of Piatt 's Oilgram appears to "be obtained ) is geared to the export trade. The absence of maximum price legislation in Germany during the oil crisis meant that high prices could be achieved for trans­ actions , and these were reflected ultimately in Piatt 's Oilgram quotations, which themselves were used as the basis for further transactions .
It is understood that the prices passed to the Piatt's Oil-
gram organization may includf® prices in respect of transactions which are expected but not yet concluded. Moreover, it is not known to what extent the data passed by the oil companies concern
transactions within their own group, but in this connection it is »
worth noting that even the major oil companies often use inter­ mediaries for their transactions and thus the exact nature of some
of the prices passed to the Piatt's Oilgram organization may not be known.
Every effort is undoubtedly made to ensure that the data used in the compilation of Piatt's Oilgram quotations are absolutely up to date, but the actual criteria for interpreting the data given and the means of determining the daily quotations are unknown, as indeed are the sources of the information themselves.
It seems likely that the ultimate decision as to the level at which the daily quotations are to be fixed rests with the coordinator
in New York, who doubtless takes account of market trends when applying his judgment to the interpretation of the data.
It might be said , of course , that the Piatt 's Oilgram quotation
is regarded only as a guide in concluding contracts in respect of oil products and that the final prices are determined on .9, basis of mutual agreement between the parties, taking account of the state of the mar­ ket and the transaction concerned. Nevertheless, there remains no
doubt that throughout the studies undertaken by the Commission into the oil sector in Europe, extensive references were found to the use of , if not actual reliance on, the quotations contained in Piatt's Oilgram.and that such frequent reference to this publication raises some real pro­ blems concerning the correctness of prices.
i;' for deliveries to Germanyj' - ' -
3. Sales to third parties in other countries
The sales by oil companies to third parties consisted mainly of hulk sales to other companies in the market and to large independent jobbers which were made either on the basis of a firm contract or as spot purchases at the market prices.
Because of the special nature of the German market with its inadequate domestic production of heating oil distillates and prices
which were not subject to official regulation, exports to Germany of gas oil are of particular interest.
In view of this , Tab^<e 24_ compares the following:
,*• prices:, charged by/two^independent Dutch dealers (Companies ;IT and 0)
– the prices charged by Company A (an international company), for deliveries to a dealer selling to the German market. The price is described by Company A as "Average Piatt Ts low (Piatt *s mean) Rotterdam for 30 days prior to the 15th of the month prior to the month of loading plus 35 cent ^1 ; '
– the transfer prices which Company A charged its own German refining subsidiary ;
– the Platts* Oilgram quotations.
As the table shows, Companies N and 0 were the first to increase their prices when the crisis began, by approximately 40% between September and October 1973 » broadly in line with Piatt 's , whereas Company A raised its prices much less.
January February March
(LAS OÏL Exports to Germany
Price charged by Piatt.' 3
Company A to group companies in Germany
These differences "between prices charged "by Compa?iy A to a dealer selling on the German market, on the one hand, and those of Piatt*s and the independent dealers, on the other, were due to the interval related to the date of the Piattfs Oilgram quotation specified in the supply contract "between Company A and the dealers selling to
the German market#
The differences "between Company A's transfer price and what it charged to a dealer selling to Germany were due to the different manner in which Piatt's Oilgram quotations enter into the calculation of the two prices: the price to the dealer selling to the German market is related almost entirely to Piatt 's Oilgram quotations, vjhereas Piatt's influence on transfer pricing is, as we have seen, much less.
Table 25 illustrates, in respect of super petrol and heating gas oil, the disparity "between two companies' (A's and I's) transfer prices and Piatt's Oilgram (mean) Rotterdam quotations.
It will "be observed that the transfer prices were always "below Piatt 's and that the gap widened during the months covered .
COMPARISON or TRANSFER PRICES OF COMPANIES A AND I
From the information and trends set out above, it can "be seen that the transfer prices of crude oil or of oil products had virtually no effect on market prices at the time of the crisis*
Where there are price controls, the result of a market crisis is that market prices tend to align themselves on the maximum controlled prices.
Where the market remains free of controls, prices tend to float up to the level of world market prices. They tend to follow the pattern of the highest prices, which are those either of the more or less marginal quantities of crude "bought at higher prices or of refined products purchased on the world market.
Variations or differences in transfer prioes in each of these two situations have n<? effect, except on the "balance sheets of the international subsidiaries of the companies.
Ultimately, it is in the terms under which the various companies supplying the market obtain their supplies that the factors governing price levels in times of crisis, as in times of market stability , are to be found.
As regards crude oil, the major companies, which for a
long time have had an almost exclusive control of Middle East oil,
have established very close relationships with the producer countries and, despite the gradual disappearance of concession oil, still benefit directly or indirectly from privileged purchasing conditions in countries where production costs are in any case the lowest. With respect to crude oil then, the other companies are subject from the outset to a handicap which is felt at all stages right up to the finished product.
The result is that when there is pressure on the market, companies other than the majors exert as much upward pressure on prices as the majors themselves.
Since these are also companies which are partly state owned and whose market position the state therefore has an interest in strengthening, government price controls inevitably take account of their situation and preserve conditions in which they can continue to operate profitably.
In some ways, the resulting price levels help to provide the large international companies with higher profits then they would attain in a real market economy.
As regards refined products, as soon as the market "begins to
become restrictedfthe fact that dealers seek to acquire marginal quantities at world prices also has the effect of forcing prices higher.
To sum up, in times of crisis, prices tend to rise to the highest level without any apparent relation to the internal transfer prices of the companies.
 German refineries of German companies 31#
The German market, the only one in which supplies and prices remained genuinely free during the crisis, provides a good illustration of what we have just said and enables a number of comments to be made#
Estimate of origin of supplies on the German domestic market (1973 )Λ)
German refineries of the large international
German refineries of non–German European companies and American independents
4% "JOffo refined in Germany
Imports from other Community countries (excluding Netherlands)
Imports from non-member countries
Total consumption of oil products in 1973* 137 million tonnes
One particular feature of Germany's supplies of oil products is that only 'JOfo is covered from refineries in Germany, the rest being imported.
Oil companies refining in the Netherlands
These imports came from the following four sources in somewhat similar proportions: the large international companies refining in the Netherlands who transferred oil supplies to their German subsidiaries , the Rotterdam free market , refineries elsewhere
in the Community and non-member countries.
This supply structure also explains the way prices are formed on the German market .
As soon as the market experiences pressure, these prices inevitably have to fall somewhere between the cost of products refined in Germany by the large international companies and the cost of imported products paid for at the higher world market price.
It can be assumed that approximately 20$ of German
supplies are obtained at prices fairly close to the world price. These
products, handled mostly by dealers, are sold at this higfc price on a market where actual or feared shortfalls provoke customers into buying regardless of price.
These quantities, marginal in terms of volume, in fact determine the market price since other sellers or intermediaries naturally aim to profit from the same price in their sales.
Hence, at times of crisis, German market prices have tended
to be similar to world prices. But the movement of prices is not uniform:
there are exceptions in individual regions, and this explains the significant price differences throughout the crisis recorded in Table 20.
The German example thus shows that transfer prices are economically meaningful and reflect product costs only when the market is in a state of lon^-term equilibrium.
It is this disparity between real costs and transfer prices
which gave rise to accusations against the oil companies that they were
operating price systems which were so complex that they could cover up
any form of manipulation. Indeed all the systems which they operate
certainly do lack clarity and logic, permitting uncheckable calculations to he made .
If in one way or another transfer prices were to determine selling prices, and in certain circumstances and on certain markets they
could "be a contributory factor, the way they are formed would have to become much clearer.
It is equally regrettable that when national authorities are determining prices, the "bases of their calculations are not more closely related to reality instead of appearing to bear little relation to real costs at the various stages of production and distribution.
As the introduction to this report recalls, the press release announcing the Commission's decision to inquire into the conduct of the oil companies explicitly referred to difficulties facing the independents .
Part II of the report referred to the Commission's classification of the oil companies into three categories:
(a) the large integrated companies operating on a worldwide scale ;
(b) the integrated oil companies of which the activities tend to be concentrated in one or several member states ;
(c) smaller companies importing and distributing oil products
and in some cases owning refineries .
This classification does not make it clear what the Commission meant when it referred in 1973 "to "the "independents".
The Commission's preoccupation at that time was the survival of small and medium sized firms , most of whose turnover depended on oil products and which were independent as regards supplies, distribution and prices.
However , this definition is both academic and inadequate .
Large numbers of enterprises have long-term contracts covering varying proportions of their requirements with this or that large international company. Are these enterprises independent or not? In concluding these contracts are they not giving up their freedom of source of supply by the very act whereby they seek to secure their supplies?
Moreover, this definition takes no account of the vital differences between an importer/wholesaler and a retailer. There are probably some 60,000 dealers in oil products at all stages in the Community, yet only a few hundred of these are importers/wholesalers.
Unlike API in Italy, most of the independent companies have neither their own refinery nor direct access to refining capacities. Others specialize in manufacturing or regenerating lubricants . Some , such as Bulk Oil , actually operate as jobbers , importing and selling oil prciucts. But the vast majority of the independent dealers simply sell industrial and domestic fuel oils and sometimes petrol.
It goes without saying that the interests of these dealers vary just as widely as their size, line of business and sales volume, which can range from several million tonnes in several countries to a few thousand tonnes in a single area or city.
Nevertheless , although these independent dealers generally hold rather modest market shares , taken together they account for approximately 20% of the distribution of oil products.
The situation varies from one country to another. Apart from France , where precise statistics exist , it is difficult to obtain an accurate picture of sales by the independents.
This being said, the trade associations estimate that in those countries where the independents do a sizable volume of business'' they
accounted for the following market shares in 1973s BELGIUM
Diesel fuel and heating oil Heavy fuel oils
Diesel fuel and heating oil Heavy fuel oils
1 Excluding Germany , for which the Commission the independents * market share .
5% 50% at least 6%
showing
Domestic fuel oil
Domestic fuel oil
The role of the independents
Their lower costs and their ability to obtain products on favourable terms enabled them to compete actively with the large companies .
Hence , over the last twenty years or so , the independents
were able to set up distribution networks in parallel with those of the large companies, to build up stocks and to acquire their own means of
transport. industry and
The brands , thus
They were well adjusted to the requirements of light domestic consumers .
independent manufacturers of lubricants launched new stimulating competition on this market .
on the
world market. Prices were depressed. The large and medium-sized independent companies absorbed the surplus and helped to keep supply and demand in equilibrium . In order to dispose of their surpluses , the refineries were willing to sell to the independents at relatively low prices .
At tne various stages of distribution the independents carved themselves out a substantial share of the market iside by side with the large companies.
This is not to say that the independents had no problems "before the crisis .
Owing to their relatively modest size the independents feel the effect of regional,weather or economic variations more than the large companies , and likewise competition from other energy sources . They also suffer from the burden and cost of compliance with national or other regulations which are felt less by companies which are financially and administratively more substantial (controls of all kinds , compulsory storage , anti-pollution regulations , technical barriers to trade, etc.).
From 1972 up to early 1974 demand was beginning to exceed supply . Countries with inadequate refinery capacity , such as Germany and the Scandinavian countries , became obliged to pay higher prices for their supplies. Refineries no longer had the slightest problem in disposing of their output.
This was when the independents began to run into difficulties. Only a small minority of them were able to take advantage of the rise
in prices by making profitable export deals from Community refineries. For most of them the problem was to supply their distribution networks . on competitive terms in order to defend them against their larger competitors .
The crisis only exacerbated this situation - sometimes to an extreme degree . In Belgium »the independents - particularly those depending heavily on imports - were in serious trouble , with only
of their requirements supplied.
Those which had their principal market in Belgium were offered products at prices higher than the maximum Belgian prices. Several of them managed to obtain supplies , particularly in March and April 1974 t only as a result of government requisition orders.
One of the big independent companies operating in Belgium, where it had crude oil refined and sold its products, also had very cerious problems owing to the high prices it was obliged to pay for crude oil and to refining costs which were increased because of under- utilization of hired capacity.
The situation in the Netherlands was similar to that in Belgium, though aggravated to an extent because distribution margins were not,
as in Belgium, fixed by the authorities at the same time as maximum prices. The action taken by the Rijksbureau was not enough to put
right in all caces the precarious situations in which the independents found themselves.
Certain independent companies which were exporters,however, made substantial profits . For example , light fuel oil bought by an independent in December 1973 from one of the large international companies at PI . 28.39 per 100 1 . was sold to Germany at PI . 47«57 » Opportunities such as that resulted in some of these exporters increasing their storage capacity in the Netherlands above the level corresponding to real requirements in normal circumstances. The resulting burden of finance charges was too heavy, and the large international companies acquired some of this capacity.
In France certain independents which were normally importers
had problems in November 1973^ A circular distributed in November
1973 assigned to the Union des Chambres Syndicales des Industries du Petrole (UCSIP) the task of preparing a plan for supplying those
companies which now found it impossible to import. The plan fixed
the level of supplies to these independents at 75% of reference
levels. The result of this system was that during the crisis the companies 1 market shares were frozen , as were those of their distributors . This system ceased operating in 1974 and the independents were urged
to secure their supplies by negotiating contracts direct with companies having refining operations in France ; such contracts would . be -less •
uncertain than some import contracts which were sensitive to price fluctuations on the world market .
that supplies of heating oil were to be held at 80 a]o of their 1972 level
and furnished by the same distribution networks. The oil companies opposed this. Provincial committees (official bodies headed by the prefects) were set up to organize the distribution of these products. A ministerial instruction of 23 November 1973 announced the decision to grant distribution rights only to companies nominated by refiners. The reason for this was that the previous arrangements had given rise to some disorder on the oil product market by compelling refiners to make supplies available to dealers whose traditional sources of supply lay outside Italy. Naturally enough, the Italian oil companies favoured the distribution networks which were linked to them and which sometimes received more supplies than they could normally handle; on the other hand,certain independents received little or nothing. Normal channels of distribution were consequently disrupted. Some consumers were not supplied, and there even sprang up a black market in heating oil.
There was no attempt to regulater supplies on the petrol market, and companies refused to sell petrol to the independents, resulting in the temporary closure of hundreds of petrol stations.
Moreover, the reduction in distribution margins fixed by the Comitato Interministeriale Prezzi (CIP) both for petrol and heating oils affected the independents more seriously than the integrated distribution networks.
Heating oils Light fuel oil Heavy fuel oil
1 January 1973
20 February 1974
Another result of the limitation of the prices of oil products
by the CIP was to reduce the trade margins of the coastal depots from which the independents obtain their supplies. The function of these depots is to import oil products, mainly from the USSR and France, to regulate these imports by means of their storage capacity and thus help to keep the market
in balance. During the crisis they found it difficult to cover their operating costs. This made it even harder for the independents to obtain supplies.
The Commissiorl will continue its examination of the conduct of the companies within the provincial committee system and its effects on supplies to independents during the crisis.
Generally speaking, wherever price controls existed the independents found survival difficult during the crisis. The reduced margin between prices invoiced by refineries and maximum prices often failed to cover distribution costs fully, and in view of the price levels prevailing at home it was not practical to obtain supplies from abroad .
It is impossible to establish accurately how the structure of the trade was changed by the crisis. One estimate is that the number of enterprises which went out of business , including those which became bankrupt and those which were taken over by another company, was no higher than a few hundred in all categories for the whole Community
(only one per cent of all the companies). In the end, given market trends in recent years, the number of importer/wholesalers which are truly independent cannot be more than one out of two.
The enquiry announced, by the Commission on 21
1973 coveredtheperiodfromOctober1973"toMarch1974-theperiod.
marked by the oil crisis stemming from the armed, conflict which brokeoutintheMiddleEaston6^October1973. Theenquiry's
findings and conclusions as to the behaviour of oil companies during this period do not necessarily apply to the situation which obtained before or after the crisis.
The purpose of the enquiry was to examine the behaviour of oil companies in the Community and assess it with regard to the rules on competition set out in the Treaty of Rome. The Commission's investigative powers extend to all member countries, but the enquiry has also produced important information relevant to matters outside the Community, notably the formation of crude oil prices in producer countries and also the transfer prices charged by oil companies in respect of crude oil sold to their refineries and refined products sold to their distributing subsidiaries.
The sudden pressure on the market for oil products, its impact on the price of these products and the uncertainty as, to the gravity and duration of the crisis, rapidly produced within the Community a supply situation in respect of oil products which obliged the Commission to ensure, by the means of direct action available to it , that the situation was not being exploited by the oil companies in violation of the Treaty's rules on competition;
The Commission's apprehension was justified because of the specific structure of the market in oil products, which is controlled by a small number of large international companies distributing a limited number of homogeneous products obtained from the same raw material to which they have privileged access. In proportions which may vary, all these companies purchase their oil from the same sources, often from enterprises in which they have a joint interest, at prices which are broadly similar for
a given supply point. They load the oil at the same ports and ship it to the same destinations, where they manufacture the same products under the same conditions and , at the same refineries .
Whether in the case of actual joint ventures, exchanges
of refining capacities or transfers of products, the large companies are linked by an extensive network of relationships which, even
if there are good historical and economic reasons for them, constitute none the less a factor in strengthening their solidarity and consolidating their position.
The Commission will remain alert to the possibility that, by forging more and more of these links, the companies might create together a situation which would limit the scope for effective compet it ion .
Alongside these large international companies, there is
a smaller number of integrated companies, also with refineries in the Community , which , to a varying extent , depending on their requirements,have access to supplies of crude oil, but aitgenerally higher prices.
Finally , as regards the supply of oil products , there are
the independent wholesalers , who , in normal circumstances , are able
to play an active and effective role, in that they are in a position to obtain supplies from the cheapest sources and to ask lower prices, thereby introducing a significant element of competition.
During the crisis, not only did the large oil companies continue to enjoy access to sources of supply on better terms than their competitors but their market position was reinforced by the relative scarcity of supply and even more so by the fear of real shortage. This situation harboured increased risks of restrictive practices involving supplies or prices, notably
market sharing, abusive price policies or the elimination of
less well placed competitors or independent dealers. These were, incidentally, risks which the authorities in member states were concerned to limit by measures appropriate to the national markets .
Once the threat of a shortage appeared, the conditions
of supply were serious affected not only by the onset of the crisis but also by the attitude adopted by governments towards this threat.
In most member countries the refining capacities cover requirements. The authorities in those countries took steps to control price increases and to restrict exports of refined products. However, for reasons stemming both from its economic tenets and from an appreciable shortfall in refining capacities in Germany, the Government of that country chose to rely to a large extent on the free interplay of market mechanismes to make up by imports the shortfall in national refining capacity .
The varied policy approaches adopted within the Community by the several member states and the differing national measures
implementing these policies affected the oil companies and explain certain facets of their behaviour in member countries.
Assessment in the light of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty of Rome
The Commission has examined, whether the changes in the respective positions of the parties economically involved , did not , during the crisis, lead to restrictive or unfair practices "by companies as regards supplies and prices or towards independent dealers and users .
Assessment of the facts was often made difficult because
the authorities in most n&mber states pursued a short-term oil policy which meant that they had to involve -either themselves or through their trade associations - the oil companies in determining or implementing national objectives.
This concertation between companies obviously resulted in practices which , although they had the blessing of the member states , could
not avoid having some impact on competition and were therefore apt to fall within the relevant rules of the Treaty.
Subject to any conclusions to the contrary which the Commission may reach, when it has completed the action which it intends to take
(see point 5 below), the findings of the enquiry are as follows :
The dominant position of the oil companies
The whole of the report shows that the structure of supply was
not fundamentally different during the oil crisis from what it
had been previously but – bearing in mind the relative scarcity of oil products – insofar as certain oil companies had at their disposal the bulk of the crude oil produced, and transported and refined it , the position of the independent and even of some of
the less powerful integrated companies was undermined. Nevertheless, at the same time,refiners in general saw their position strengthened to such an extent that , collectively , they acquired a dominant position on the oil market.
In view of the scarcity of oil products and since dealers
and consumers were, as a result, unable to rely on other suppliers even in their own countries, each of the companies with refining capacities in a given country thus became the sole and imposed supplier of all dealers and consumers who were its traditional customers. In the context of their collective dominant position, each of the refining companies was , therefore , in a monopolistic position towards its customers.
A dominant position was created for the supplier in respect of these traditional customers, due to the collective dominant position of all refiners on the entire national market. Such a situation existed in all member states except Germany.
The definition of what constituted a company's traditional customers gives rise , of course , to some difficulty . In the context of actual problems raised by the crisis, the Commission
has taken the view that a company should have considered as a traditional customer , any buyer who , in the twelve months prior to the crisis, had in some way or another been its customer.
It is on this basis that the Commission made its assessment of the companies' behaviour in this field.
The supply of oil products
The information gathered on the overall supply of crude oil
to all refineries in the common market shows that the contraction
in supplies was the result of production cuts ordered by the pro­ ducing countries and of their embargo directed at the Netherlands and Denmark.
The Commission's investigations did not reveal the existence
of any practices forbidden under Articles 85 and 86 in the arrangements for supplying the Community with crude oil. All the oil companies experienced difficulties in their own supply systems in the oil- producing countries . Some of them , with a lesser proportion of concession oil at their disposal, experienced greater difficulties
than others in supplying their refineries.
The integrated companies which had no crude oil resources of their own or whose resources were so inadequate that they had concluded supply contracts for crude oil with the large international companies , continued to "be supplied on the basis of contracts .
By the same token, the Commission was unable to establish that there had been any agreement between oil companies in Europe, within the meaning of Article 85, to restrict deliveries of refined products. This does not contradict the fact that , locally t dealers or users had to face major supply problems during the most acute phase of the crisis - problems which were caused mainly by a steep rise in demand on the part of anxious customers and by interruptions in the rhythm
of deliveries by the refineries and wholesalers. The national authorities did all they could to remedy this.
The transfer prices charged by the large oil companies, whether for crude oil or refined products, relate to transactions between firms in the same group, that is to say, they are internal prices determined from tax, financial and economic considerations peculiar to the enterprise itself. Where such transactions are purely internal in their effect they are not caught by the rules on competition.
However, the Commission could not rule out the possibility that certain internalpractices in respect of transfer pricing might be indicative of an agreement or a concerted practice between the oil companies if they revealed coordinated behaviour . Nor could the Commission rule out the possibility that a policy
of high or diversified transfer prices,applied to subsidiaries in countries where the authorities do not intervene in the marketi
might constitute an element of abuse through its effects on selling prices where the company in question was in a dominant position.
As a check on their behaviour among themselves, the oil companies' respective transfer prices, for both crude oil and refined products, were compared. This showed that all the oil companies had followed their own line and that the transfer prices of crude oil in particular, though differing very little from each other, nevertheless did reflect the differences between the supply situations of the various companies. They also reflected the differences between the price polioies pursued by the companies, some of which charge the same transfer prices to all their refining subsidiaries throughout the Community, while others vary them to take account of conditions on national markets.
In view of the highly diversified supply arrangements in Germany and the market economy which prevails there, no oil company
was able to abuse its position through the transfer prices it applied in transactions with its German subsidiaries .
An analysis of the various systems and levels of transfer prices did not reveal any concerted practices among the oil companies.
In respect of the selling price to consumers, the fact that most member states set maximum prices made concerted practices between the oil companies impossible in"these countries, once the prices had been fixed.
It might have been thought that in Germany the
oil companies would have come to an arrangement among themselves
to increase their profits on the German market. Yet the trends taken by consumer prices on that market was the work of all the economic factors involved in making up that portion of Germany's oil requirements not covered by refineries located in that country, in particular importing dealers , who, faced with the threat of shortage and in the absence of prices fixed by the Government, accepted the level set by international demand.
Of course, the prices asked by importers and by the subsidiaries of the large oil companies in Germany were all gravitating towards this level. In a market where there is little variation
between products and where prices move very swiftly, consumer prices may temporarily assume a variety of levels from one company or region to another, but different price levels for the same product cannot be expected to obtain permanently throughout the market.
In between companies
any event , the Commission discovered no agreements in connection with this aspect.
is its view , however , that as certain systems of
disseminating international prices , such as Piatt 's Oilgram , may
effect on price levels in Germany or on any other free market, give attention to the operation and effects of these systems particular, check whether the information system used by
have an
Piatt 's Oilgram might not result in prices being published which do not correspond to the whole of the actual quotations.
An attempt may be made to estimate the excess price paid by Germany between October 1973 and April 1974 as compared with countries where the authorities set maximum prices. The Commission estimates that for those six months, the excess price might have
been in the order of one thousand million dollars for a consumption
of sixty-four million tonnes of oil products , i.e. an average of about fifteen dollars per tonne. This may seem a large sum, but this additional expenditure on Germany's part is more than offset by the advantages which it has traditionally derived
from its position as an importer of refined products bought
at cheaper prices on the world market , the periods of depression on that market having in the past been considerably longer than the periods of pressure.
Independent dealers and users
During the crisis the independent companies experienced such difficulties that , in some cases , their very existence was threatened. This was particularly true where the level of maximum prices prevented the independents from buying freely and squeezed their margins to excess.
Many small and medium-sized firms, engaged solely in distribution, have tried either to cover themselves against a recurrence of the same difficulties or to sell out.
The second alternative led to the buying up of a certain number of medium-sized business by the big companies.
Other firms concluded long-term supply contracts with the refiners which give them a large degree of security but deprive them at the same time of genuinely free access to the market.
Nevertheless the total of such transactions was small in relation to the total of dealers in oil products in the common market , estimated at around 60,000 wholesalers and retailers .
The crisis thus brought about structural changes
in the oil business which are reflected^not in a noticeable reduction
in the number of firms^but in the existence of new relationships between the oil companies and a certain number of wholesalers.
Nevertheless the Commission discovered nothing in this development indicatirg abuse by the oil companies of their collective dominant position .
On the other hand, the Commission has examined cases of presumed abuse of an individual dominant position by certain companies in respect of independent dealers who are their customers.
The Commission takes the view that , during the crisis , all the large oil companies were in an individual dominant position, at least in respect of their traditional customers, who had no access to suppliers other than those with whom they had done business.
A refusal to sell to such customers can constitute an abuse forbidden by Article 86 since it may affect trade between member states, which
is certainly "the case when a sizable purchaser/dealer is in danger of being squeezed out of the market , a development which would mean appreciable change in the pattern of supply for oil products in a substantial part of the common market.
The question might even " be asked whether , in a crisis in which state intervention , in particular , produces a degree of fragmentation of the market, companies in a collective dominant position should not be obliged,according to their share of the market concerned, to supply in reasonable quantities and at reasonable prices to buyers who, before this fragmentation of
the market, obtained their supplies from other sources. Such an obligation would have the effect of maintaining the competitive marketing structure which existed before the crisis.
Further investigations decided by the Commission
Following a complaint of refusal to sell, the Commission is continuing its examination of a case which may
involve an abuse of a dominant position under Article 86 of the Treaty of Rome.
The Commission ascertained, in respect of certain products, the existence of specific market situations and price
differences which justify closer investigation.
This applies to kerosene and naphtha, on the markets for which there are oligopolies of both suppliers and buyers.
The Commission has decided to carry out enquiries in the following sectors under Council Regulation No. 17 i
(i) jet fuel (kerosene), with the airlines;
(ii) naphtha, with the chemical industry;
(iii) the use by oil companies of references to Piatt's Oilgram quotations ;
(iv) public supply contracts with electricity companies. ***
It also emerges from this report that during the crisis the dissimilar actions "by member states were aimed at the urgent introduction of measures and gave the impression of an "every man for himself" approach,which was scarcely in the Community spirit.
During the same period, because of their international standing and experience, the oil companies made an important con­ tribution to alleviating for the countries of the Community, the serious repercussions on their supplies of the decisions taken by the oil producing countries.
This same crisis served , in fact , to highlight how effective and indispensable their influence is, and to bring home to economic observers and to the general public the power wielded by these large companies and the limitations of any attempt at state intervention.
This power flows from their historical and privileged links with the oil-producing countries, their ownership of tanker fleets as well as most of the refineries in the world, and the integrated character of all their activities.
But the producing countries have progresively effected
a transfer of power to their own advantage. The successive attempts to reduce concessions and gradually to take control of operations have seriously eroded the oil companies' position in the producing countries .
Nevertheless they retain almost exclusive control of supply routes , refining and distribution facilities .
In view of these developments,the consuming countries
will require to pay more attention to both the economic and political terms attached to their oil supplies.
It is therefore essential, in the light of present
and foreseeable circumstances, to achieve a better balance between the roles of the public authorities and the oil companies respectively. The companies are complex agents whose economic
value is unquestioned but whose role must be better defined.
Against this background, most member states have
already embarked on a systematic rationalization of their relations with the companies. This ranges from an organization on a legal basis of the French type to consultation machinery as set up in Germany. The differences between these systems are indicative of different economic approaches but also reflect specific situations. Regardless of the procedure adopted, there is not a single country which has not expressed the desire to see more clearly into the particular aspects of the oil business which affect it and, if necessary, to exercise some influence .
All the industrialised countries of the world have displayed similar concern.
Forms of international cooperation have been introduced
but they do not themselves provide an answer to the Community's wish for a policy of its own, capable, should the need arise, of affirming itself independently and of counterbalancing any influence which might be contrary to its interests .
Nor does it relieve the Community of its obligation to exercise some supervision of the oil market to ensure that the rules on competition and the free movement of goods are being observed.
The oil crisis will have served to stress once more the vital necessity for the Community to develop a common oil policy.
Annual results of major groups
Total production of crude oil by the
Crude oil imports from non-member countries .< Crude oil processed in refineries
Total exports of all oil products ..
Refining capacities of oil groups in
Domestic consumption of primary energy in the enlarged European Economic Community . ·
Oil supplies of the European Economic
Community . ... 29
Domestic consumption of primary energy in the
European Economic Community - 1973 - 30
Price of Arabian Light crude oil from Ras Tanura
32 Quotations for oil·· products at Rotterdam . · 34
Domestic prices for certain oil products - taxes included -
Domestic prices for certain oil products - exclusive of taxes -
Total imports of all oil products ·.·..···· 69
Intra-Community trade in all oil products.. 71
Imports by country of origin as a percentage
of Community imports of oil products . ... .· 72~
Tax paid cost price of concession crude oil
of the type "Arabian Light" 77
Coste of crude oil to a major international company ( 1st quarter 1973)
Cost of crude oil to a major international
Cost of crude oil to a major international company ( 3rd quarter 1973 ) ·········
Cost of crude oil to a major international company (4th quarter 1973)
Average cost , margin and transfer price of a major international company
Differences "between market prices and maximum prices in the Netherlands
Influence of^Platt's Oxigram quotations on the toase costs of.Company A
Influença " pf PÌatt ' s.'Òììgrsjft quotations on the base?-'costs of'Çòmpany-Iy¿„»e.e
Comparison of transfer prices of companies
A and I with Piatt's Oilgram (Average) ~"~
( exclusive of
Tyskland .
 Preduktlonsl and
Duiπburft Dinnlaiton Godorf
 CÄ1EL/EL . , wil SK8D
Shall It.
Oetty Oil Italiana
Iktmn Oil Trading Ltd. Berry Migline and Co. Ltd.
. Skotland Britioii Petrol eu»
Win. Briggs and Sona Ltd.
Stoni ow Shollhaven Toeeport Hey&hain
tSKE = tons stenkulsskvivalenter.
Puljen havde to hovedopgavers
Irland -■
Tyskland Franlzrig
Falleaskar-' bet (a)
Basteimiel sesl and:r~~7 ]
concessions-olie/ participâtion- olie
ÎTedorland eno
Bruttopris ab raffinaderi
Ϊ2. 14 \S 15 11 11 //73 7.?.>3 7.7.73 UO.ll Mil Uîji
Bestenaelsesl ande
1 ri and Februar 1974
Tyskland 73,40
beïeï&renide Kongerig 1 ri and
- Platt's Oilgrara's priser»
PLA'T'T1s OILGHAK's HOTT!-J'f!MK-G
'Tyskland i&fo 4$ 'Tyskland
