In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
 T'ryr" it rnwrAJtivr ai:v:;;i'L
The purpose of the attached draft Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 971/ 68 laying down general rules for intervention on the market in Grana-padano and Parmigiano–Reggiano cheeses is to alter the periods during which the cheeses
in question may be offered for intervention .
In the past these cheeses were marketed in lots comprising the entire production of one The manufacturers sold the cheeses to maturing plants when they were "between three and nine months old.
In view of this practice, Article 1 (2) ("b) of Regulation (EEC) No 97l/SQ provided that cheeses manufactured in the summer could "be offered for intervention between 1 January and 31 March.
The considerable increase in interest rates has caused manufacturers of Grana/ Parmesan-type cheeses to put their production on the market as soon as the
cheeses are six months old and to abandon the traditional method of sale by lots .
The purpose of the proposed text is to adjust the intervention mechanism to take account of the new marketing conditions and to enable manufacturers of such . cheeses to offer ±hem for intervention as soon as they are six months old.
It is therefore proposed that the period during which the cheeses may be offered for intervention extend from 1 October to 15 May of the following year.
REGULATION (EEC) No OP THE COUNCIL of
amending Regulation (EEC) NO 971/68 as regards the periods during which Grana Padano and Parmigiano-Reggiano cheeses may be offered for intervention
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community ;
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) NO 804/68 ^ of 27 June 1968 on the
common organization of the market in milk and milk products, as last amended "by Regulation (EEC) No 662/74 and in particular Article 8 (4) thereof ;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission ;
Whereas Article 1 (2) of Council Regulation (EEC) NO 971/68 ^ of 15 July 1968 laying down general rules for intervention on the market in Grana Padano and Parmigiano Reggiano cheeses, as amended by Regulation (EEC) NO 1211/69 determines, inter alia, the period during which the cheeses manufactured in summer may be offered for intervention ;
Whereas, in view of the changes vrhich have occurred in production, maturing techniques and commercialization, this period should be extended to enable the intervention to be effected when the cheeses are six months old ;
The provisions of Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EEC) No 971/68 are replaced
by the following :
"b) The cheeses Grana^-Padano and Parmigiano-Reggiano are manufactured during
the period of 1 April to 11 November of the same year and offered for intervention at a minimum age of 6 month during 1 October to 15 Hay of the following year .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Coicnrunities.
This Regulation shall "be "binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels . For the Council
Brussels, 5 February 1975
Proposal for a REGULATION (EEC) OF THE COUNCIL
amending Regulation (EEC) No 971/68 as regards the periods during which Grana Padano and
Parmigiano-Reggiano cheeses may be offered for intervention
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
The purpose of the attached draft Regulation amending Regulation (EEC) No 971/68 laying down general rules for intervention on the market in Grana-padnno and Parmigiano-Reggiano cheeses is to elter the periods during which the cheeses
in question may be offered for intervention.
In the past these cheeses were marketed in lots comprising the entire production of one manufacturer* The manufacturers sold the cheeses to maturing plants when they were between three and nine months old.
In view of this practice, Article 1 (2) (b) of Regulation (EEC) NO 971/68 provided that cheeses manufactured in the summer could bo offered for intervention between 1 January and 31 March.
The considerable increase in interest rates has caused manufacturers of Grana/ Parmesan-type cheeses to put their production on the market as soon as the
cheeses are six months old and to abandon the traditional method of sale by lots .
The purpose of the proposed text is to adjust the intervention mechcuism to take account of the new marketing conditions and to enable manufacturers of such cheeses to offer ±hem for intervention as soon as they are six months old.
It is therefore proposed that the period during which the cheeses may be offered for intervention extend from 1 October to 15 May of the following year. .
amending Regulation (EEC) No 971/ 68 as regards the periods during which Grana Padano and Parmigiario-Reggiano cheeses may be offered for intervention
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community ;
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 804/68 ^ of 27 June 1968 on the
common organization of the market in milk and milk products, as last amended by Regulation (ESC) Ho 662/74 and in particular Article 8 (4) thereof ;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission ;
Whereas Article 1 (2) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 971/68 ^ of 15 July 1968 laying down general rules for intervention on the market in Grana Padano and Parmigiano Reggiaao cheeses, as amended by Regulation (EEC) HO 1211/69 determines inter alia the period during which .. cheeses manufactured in summer may be offered for intervention ;
Whereas, in view of the changes which have occurred in production, maturing techniques and marketing ' this period should be extended to enable
intervention to be effected when the cheeses are six months old ; HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION s
Artiole l(2)(b) of Regulation (EEC) No 971/68 is amended to read as follows t
nb) Grana/-Padano and Parmigiano-Reggiano oheeses are manufactured between • 1 April and 11 November of the same year and offered for intervention
at a minimum age of six months between 1 October and 15 May of the following year."
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third, day following its publication in the. Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall "be "binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels . For the Council
