In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
son article 15 paragraphe 1 sous a),
Department of Agriculture Canberra
Land hNtr.-»"V'*'**
Lfd.j Land !1 " Stelle. Nr .
i Department of Agriculture,
1 Australien Departaent of Rapa
In accordance with the Council Directives on the marketing of seeds and propagating materials, such materials if
produced in third countries may only circulate within the Community on condition that the Council has determined that these materials are
equivalent to seeds and propagating materials harvested and certified ;r j-rrr^ntorl -dtMn tho Community and complying with the provisions
of these Directives.
These measures are essentially intended to put the production of third countries on the same footing as Community pro­
duction, v/hich is subject to certain quality standards and very strict official inspection for compliance with these standards, and to exclude discrimination.
At the present time the Council , by means of Decisions , has already recognised for a limited period the equivalence of the certification or inspection systems of most of the third countries
which traditionally supply the Community with seeds and propagating materials.
These proposals are intended , on the one hand , to complete the equivalences already granted to certain third countries and , on the other , to renew and complete certain other Decisions adopted in 1972 and whose validity expires on 30 June 1975«
Second Council Decision of ••• on the equivalence of seed
potatoes produced in third countries
 Second Council Decision of on the equivalence of seed potatoes produced in third countries
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community
Having regard to the Council Directive 66/^Oj/EEC of 1^ June 1966 (1) on the marketing of seed potatoes, as last amended by the Council Directive 73/^38 of 11 December 1973 (2) and in particular Article 15 (l) thereof
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission}
Whereas the Council has declared by its First Decision N° 72/29VEEC of 20 July 1972 (3)» that seed potatoes harvested and officially controlled in Austria and in Switzerland afford the same assurances as seed pota­ toes harvested and controlled within the Community j
Whereas this Decision is only applies until 30 June 1975 J /
Whereas there are also rules in Poland providing a varietal and qualita­ tive control of seed potatoes }
Whereas those rules and the manner in which they are applied have been reviewed ; whereas this review has established that the conditions governing seed potatoes harvested and controlled in this country as regards their characters , and the arrangements for their examination , for ensuring their identity, for marking and for control afford the same assurances as seed potatoes harvested and controlled within the Community ;
Whereas, if it becomes apparent that the conditions on which Community
determinations are based are not or are no longer satisfied, those
determinations will be revoked or the period of their validity will not
be extended J , __•,
 Whereas further practical information on seed potatoes produced in the aboveraentioned countries should therefore be obtained by growing and checking samples of such seed in comparative Community tests j
It is hereby declared that, where the special conditions laid down
in the Annex to this Decision are satisfied, seed potatoes harvested
in the countries and officially controlled by the authorities listed
in the Annex to this Decision and belonging to the categories specified therein are equivalent to seed potatoes of corresponding categories harvested within the iCommunity and complying with the Council Directive of 1^ June 1966 on the marketing of seed potatoes.
This Decision shall apply from 1 July 1975 to JO June 1978. ^
This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
m the Country ( m the Corarau- ;
concerned 1I23kI•
xn the
in the Country concerned
1. Seed potatoes shall be officially certified and their containers offi­
cially sealed and marked in accordance with national provisions. Seed potatoes shall meet the requirements of Community rules and conform to the European standard for seed potatoes recommended by the Working Party on Standardization of Perishable Foodstuffs of the Economic Commission for Europe.
2. Field inspection shall be carried out by State authorites or by any legal person whether governed by public or by private law, acting under the responsibility of such authorities, provided that such person derives no private gain from the result of the inspection.
3. Any chemical treatment of the seed potatoes shall be noted either on the official label or on a special label and on the container or inside it »
4. The colour of the label shall be : - white for basic seed potatoes j - blue for certified seed potatoes
All information shall be given in at least one of the official languages of the European Communities.
Fourth Council Decision of •••• on the equivalence of field inspections carried out in third countries on seed-producing
(Communication of Mr. Lardinois)
 Forth Council Decision of ••• on the equivalence of field inspections carried out in third countries on seed-producing crops
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community f
Having regard to Council Directive N° 66/40 ^EEC (l) of Ik June 1966, on the marketing of ceireal_eeed . as last amended by Directive
N° 73/^38/EEC, (2) and in particular Article 16 (l) (a) thereof j
Having regard to Council Directive N° 69/208/EEC (3) of 30 June 1969 on the marketing of seed of oil and fibre plants, as last amended by Directive N° 73/^38/EEC, and in particular Article 15 (l) (a) thereof }
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission ;
Whereas there are rules on seed control in Australia and in Hungary } whereas these rules provide for official field inspection to be carried out during the period of seed production j
Whereas these 1 rules and the manner in which they are applied have been reviewed and whereas • this review has established that the prescribed' field inspections satisfy the conditions laid down in Annex I to the abovementioned Directives ; ,
Whereas this Decision does not preclude Community determinations being revoked or extension of the period of. their validity being refused, when the conditions on which they are based are not or cease to be satisfied ; whereas, to this end, further practical information on seed produced in the abovementioned countries should be obtained by growing and checking samples of such seed in comparative Community tests J
Whereas a further amendment is necessary owing to a transfer of powers within a national authority responsible for official seed control,
It is hereby determined that, where the special conditions laid dovra
in the Annex to this Decision are satisfied, field inspections of crops producing seed of the "certified seed" category carried out
in the countries and by the authorities listed in the said Annex
and in respect of the species specified therein satisfy the conditions
laid down in Annex I to Directive N° 66/402/EEC or 69/208/EEC*
In the Annex to First Council Decision K° 72/292/EEC (4) of 20 July
1972 on the equivalence of field inspections carried out in third countries on seed-producing crops, under reference number 21 the words "Department of Primary Industries", which appear in column 3i shall ■ be replaced by the words "Department of Agriculture".
In the Annex to Third Council Decision N" 7V348/EEC (5) of 27 June
197^ on the equivalence of field inspections carried out in third countries on seed-producing crops, under reference number 1 the words "Department of Primary Industries", which appear in column 3* shall be replaced by the words "Department of Agriculture".
This Decision shall apply until 30 June 1976.
This Decision is adressed to Member States.
Country Authority Species Spécial conditions
1* Field inspection shall be carried out in accordance with national
rules for the application of the scheme for the varietal certifica­ tion of seed moving in international trade of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
2. Field inspection shall be carried out by State authorities or by
any legal person, whether governed by public or by private law,
acting tinder the responsibility of such authorities, provided that such person derives no private gain from the result of the inspection.
3- Harvested seed shall be packed in officially sealed packages which bear an official label giving the following information :
(a) authority responsible and country,
(d) reference number of the basic seed and name of the Member State
which certified the seed,
(e) reference number of the lot,
(f) declared net or gross weight,
(g) the vjords "non-certified seed"
All information shall be given in at least one of the official lan­ guages of the European Communities.
*f» An official notice shall give the following information : - area cultivated, ■ ;
- quantity of harvested seed,
- an attestation that the crops from which the seed comes have
satisfied an official field inspection. !
Draft Fourth Council Decision of ••••• seed produced in third countries
on the équivalence of
 Fourth Council Decision of on the equivalence of seed produced in third countries. :
Having regard to
the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community )
Couticil Directive N® 66/402/EEC (l) of 1^ June 1966 on cereal seed' ,as last amended by Directive N°
Having regard to
the marketing of
73/^3£>/E3C (2), and in particular Article 16 (l) (b) thereof ;
Having regard to Council Directive N° 69/208/EEC <J$69»~-(3) cm the marketing of seed of oil and fibre plants, as last amended by Directive N° 73/^3S/EEC1 and in particular Article 15 (l) (b) thereof {
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission j
Whereas there are rules on seed control in Australir . and in Hungary j
Whereas a review of these rules and the manne.r in which they are applied has demonstrated that the conditions governing seed harvested and con­ trolled in these countries afford the same assurances as regards the seed's characteristics, identity, examination, marking and control, as do the conditions applicable to seed harvested and controlled within
the Community j "
Whereas, if it becomes apparent that the conditions on which Community determinations are based are not or are no longer satisfied, this Decision does not prevent these determinations being revoked or an extension of the period of their validity beingrefused J whereas for this purpose further practical information on seed produced in the abovementioned countries should therefore be obtained by growing and checking samples of such seed in comparative Community tests j
Whereas further amendments are necessary owing to a transfer of powers within the national authorities responsible for official seed control,
It is hereby declared that, where the special conditions laid down in
the Annex are satisfied, seed harvested in the' countries and officially controlled by the authorities listed in the said Annex and belonging
to the species and categories specified therein is equivalent to seed of the corresponding categories harvested within the Community and complying with Directive N° 66/4C2/EEC or 69/208/EE.
In the Annex to First Council Decision N° 72/293/EEC (4) of 20 July
1972 on the equivalence of seed produced in third countries, under reference number 21, the words "Department of Primary Industries", which appear in column 3» shall be replaced by the words "Department of Agriculture".
In the Annex to Third Decision N° 7V3^9/EEC (5) of 27 June 197^ on
the equivalence of seed produced in third countries, under reference
number 1, the words "Department of Pri®&rjf Industries" shall be replaced
by the words "Department of Agriculture".
This Decision shall apply until 30 June 1976- •
 Article 5 This decision is adressed to Member States
Pof ., Jo
CuraTry Autharity Spécies * Categories
in the Coun- in the Commu- try nity
1* Seed shall.be officially certified and its packages officially sealed
and marked in accordance with the scheme for the varietal certifica­ tion of seed moving in international trade of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) . The quality of the seed shall meet the requirements of Community rules.
2. Field inspection shall be carried out by State authorities or by any legal person , whether governed by public or by private law , acting under the responsibility of such authorities, provided that such person derives no private gain from the result of the inspection#
The official label shall give the following additional information :
(a) date of officiai (b) a statement that This information may addition, shall give
the seed complies with EEC rules and standards. also appear on another official label which, in the name of the authority and of the country#
4. Any chemical treatment of the seed shall be noted either on the official label or on a special label and on the package or inside it»
 5 » An official notxce placed, insjj.de . the package jshall give at least the reference number of the lot , the specif® and the variety . ;
This notice is not necessary if the minimum information is printed
indelibly on the package." f"* " "'' "" * - : '
6. All information required, for official labels*, official notices and -*'-'* i
packages shall be given in at least one of the official languages of. the European Communities. .
trnmnciY* IAH on I kammer, Wien
son article 15 paragraphe 1 sous a) ,
Department of Agriculture. -Colosse- i;.~c •• i 1,2,3,^, Canberra '
 LfcU Land Hr. '
- weiô fiir Basispflanzgut,
"Department of Primary Industries" durch die Worte "Department i,of Agriculture"
 Lfd.j Land [ Ni. .
Departmea of
Department of Agri­ culture . Canberra
1 Lâustralia Department of Colza - -Basic Seed
seed tificate 5,6
seed ficate 6
Land f
Basis- poot goed
It 2 , 3 , 4 1. 2, 3, 4
Australie |Department of iRaapzaarsl -Basic Seed -Basiszaad
Second Council Decision on the equivalence of
seed potatoes produced in third countries
Fourth Council Decision on the equivalence of
field inspections carried out in third countries on seed producing crops
Fourth Council Decision on the
equivalence of seed produced in third, countries
(submitted'to the Council by the Commission)
In accordance with the Council Directives on the marketing of seeds and propagating materials, such materials if
produced in third countries may only circulate within the Community on condition that the Council has determined that these materials are
equivalent to seeds and propagating materials harvested and certified or inspected within the Community and complying with the provisions of these Directives.
These measures are essentially intended to put the production of third countries on the same footing as Community pro­
duction, which is subject to certain quality standards and very strict official inspection for compliance with these standards, and to exclude discrimination .
At the present time the Council, by means of Decisions, has already recognised for a limited period the equivalence of the certification or inspection systems of most of the third countries
which traditionally supply the Community with seeds and propagating materials .
These proposals are intended, on the one hand, to complete the equivalences already granted to certain third countries and, on the other, to renew and complete certain other Decisions adopted in 1972 and whose validity expires on 30 June 1975-
Second Council Decision of ... on the equivalence of seed
potatoes produced in third countries
 Second Council Decision of on the equivalence of seed potatoes produced in third countries
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community
Having regard to the Council Directive 66/^03/EEC of l*f June 1966 (l) on the marketing of aaod potatcm^ as last amended by the Council Directive 73/^38 of 11 December 1973 (2) and in particular Article 15 (l) thereof
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Whereas the Council has declared by its First Decision N° 72/29VEEC of 20 July 1972 (3)» that seed potatoes harvested and officially controlled in Austria and in Switzerland afford the same assurances as seed pota­ toes harvested and controlled within the Community j
Whereas this Decision only appli e« until 30 June 1975 }
Whereas there are also rules in Poland providing a varietal and qualita­ tive control of seed potatoes ;
Whereas those rules and the manner in which they are applied have been reviewed ; whereas this review has established that the conditions governing seed potatoes harvested and controlled in this country as regards their characters, and the arrangements for their examination, for ensuring their identity, for marking and for control afford the same assurances as seed potatoes harvested and controlled within the Community j
Whereas, if it becomes apparent that the conditions on which Community determinations are based are not or are no longer satisfied, those determinations will be revoked or the period of their validity will not be extended ; ' /
 Whereas further practical information on seed potatoes produced in the abovementioned countries should therefore be obtained by growing and checking samples of such seed in comparative Community tests j
It is. hereby declared that, where the special conditions laid down
in the Annex to this Decision are satisfied, seed potatoes harvested in th,e countries and officially controlled by the authorities listed in the Annex to this Decision and belonging to the categories specified therein are equivalent to seed potatoes of corresponding categories harvested within the Community and complying with the Council Directive of 1^ June 1966 on the marketing of seed potatoes.
This Decision shall apply from 1 July 1975 to 30 June 1978.
This Decision is addressed to the Member States.
in the Country m the Coramu-
in the Coramunity
in the Country concerned
1. Seed potatoes shall be officially certified and their containers offi­
cially sealed and marked in accordance with national provisions. Seed potatoes shall meet the requirements of Community rules and conform to the European standard for seed potatoes recommended by the Working Party on Standardization of Perishable Foodstuffs of the Economic
2. Field inspection shall be carried out by State authorites or by any legal person whether governed by public or by private law, acting under the responsibility of such authorities, provided that such person derives no private gain from the result of the inspection.
 Any chemical treatment of the seed potatoes shall be noted either on the official label or on a special label and on the container i insideit.„. .
The colour of the label shall be : - white for basic seed potatoes ; - blue for certified seed potatoes
All information shall be given in • at least one of the official languages of the European Communities.
Fourth Council Decision of .... on the equivalence of field inspections carried out in third countries on seed-producing
 Forth Council Decision of on the equivalence of field inspections carried out in third countries on seed-froduci;i^ crops
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community
Having regard to Council Directive N° 66/^0 ^EEC (1) of 14 June 1966, on the marketing of cereal _se«d. ., as last amended by Directive
N° 73/^38/EEC, (2) eind in particular Article 16 (l) (a) thereof j
Having regard to Council Directive N° 69/208/EEC (3) of 30 June 1969 on the marketing of seed of oil and fibre plants, as last amended by Directive N° 73/^38/EEC, and in particular Article 15 (l) (a) thereof f
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission ;
Whereas there are rules on seed control in Australia and in Hungary { whereas these rules provide for official field inspection to be carried out during the period of seed production ?
Whereas these rules and the manner in which they are applied have been reviewed and whereas this review has established that the prescribed field inspections satisfy the conditions laid down in Annex I to the abovementioned Directives 5
Whereas this Decision does not preclude Community determinations being revoked or extension of the period of their validity being refused, when the conditions on which they are based are not or cease to be satisfied ; whereas, to this end, further practical information on seed produced in the abovementioned countries should be obtained by growing and checking samples of such seed in comparative Community tests ;
Whereas a further amendment is necessary owing to a transfer of powers within a national authority responsible for official seed control,
It is hereby determined that, where the special conditions laid down
in the Annex to this Decision are satisfied, field inspections of crops producing seed of the "certified seed" category carried out
in the countries and by the authorities listed in the said Annex
and in respect of the species specified therein satisfy the conditions
laid down in Annex I to Directive N° 66/402/EEC or 69/208/EEC.
In the Annex to First Council Decision N° 72/292/EEC (4) of 20 July
1972 on the equivalence of field inspections carried out in third countries on seed-producing crops, under reference number 21 the words "Department of Primary Industries" in column 3 shall
be replaced by the words "Department of Agriculture"i
In the Annex to Third Council Decision N° 7V3^8/EEC (5) of 27 June
197^ on the equivalence of field inspections carried out in third countries on seed-producing crops, under reference number 1 the words "Department of Primary Industries", 1 v in column 3t shall be . replaced by the words "Department of Agriculture ".
This Decision shall apply until 30 June 1976*
This Decision is adressed to the Mjonher States .
Department of Agriculture Swede rape Canberra
1. Field inspection shall be carried out in accordance with national
rules for the application of the scheme for the varietal certifica­ tion of seed moving in international trade of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
2. Field inspection shall be carried out by State authorities or by
any- legal person*- whether governed by public or by pfivate law, .V.
acting under the responsibility of such authorities, provided that such person derives no private gain from the result of the inspection.
3. Harvested seed shall be packed in- Officially sealed packages which bear an official label giving the following information :
(a) authority responsible and country,
(d) reference number of the basic seed and .name of the Member State
which certified the seed, . < ■ ■
(e) reference number of the lot,
(f) declared net or gross weight,
(g) the words "non-certified seed"
All information shall be given in at least one of the official lan­ guages of the European Communities.
4. An official notice shall give the following information :
- area cultivated,
- quantity of harvested seed,
- an attestation that the crops from which the seed comes have
satisfied an official field inspection.
 Fourth Council Decision of • seed produced in third countries
on the . equivalence of
 Fourth Council Decision of •••••>• on the equivalence of seed produced in third countries.,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Econoraic Community
Having regard to Council Directive N° 66/402/EEC (1) of lU June 1966 on the marketing of - cereal seed- ,as last amended by Directive N° 73/^38/EEC (2), and in particular Article 16 (l) (b) thereof ;
HavingregardtoCouncilDirectiveN°69/20&/EECof)3Q-'JHnoJ$69,(3)on. < the marketing of seed of oil and fibre plants, as last amended by Directive N° 73/^38/EEC, and in particular Article 15 (1) (b) thereof }
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission j WhereastherearerulesonseedcontrolinAustralir. andinHungaryj
Whereas a review of these rules and the manner in which they are applied has demonstrated that the conditions governing seed harvested and con­ trolled in these countries afford the same assurances as regards the seed's characteristics, identity, examination, marking and control as do the conditions applicable to seed harvested and controlled within
the Community ;
Whereas, if it becomes apparent that the conditions on which Community determinations are based are not or are no longer satisfied, this Decision does not prevent these determinations being revoked or an extension of the period of their validity beingrefused j whereas for this purpose further practical information on seed produced in the abovementioned countries should therefore be obtained by growing and checking samples of such seed in comparative Community tests j
 Whereas further amendments are necessary owing to a transfer of powers within the national authorities responsible for official seed control,
It is hereby declared that, where the special conditions laid down m
the Annex are satisfied, seed harvested in the countries and officially controlled by the authorities listed in the said Annex and belonging
to the species and categories specified therein is equivalent to seed of the corresponding categories harvested within the Community and complying with Directive N° 66/kC2/EEC or 69/208/EE.
In the Annex to First Council Decision N° 72/293/EEC (4) of 20 July
1972 on the equivalence of seed produced in third countries, under reference number 21, the words "Department of Primary Industries", which appear in column 3» shall be replaced by the words "Department of Agriculture".
In the Annex to Third Decision N° 7^/3^9/EEC (5) of 27 June 197^ on
the equivalence of seed produced in third countries, under reference
number 1, the words "Department of Priasry Industries" shall be replaced
by the words "Department of Agriculture". Article k
This Decision shall apply until 30 June 1976.
This decision is adressed to th® &on»er' States *
in the Coun- in the Commu-
1. Seed shall be officially certified and its packages officially sealed
and marked in accordance with the scheme for the varietal certifica­ tion of seed moving in international trade of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The quality of the seed shall meet the requirements of Community rules.
2. Field inspection shall be carried out by State authorities or by any legal person , whether governed by public or by private law , acting under the responsibility of such authorities, provided that such person derives no private gain from the result of the inspection#
3« The official label shall give the following additional information : (a) date of officiai sealing .
(b) a statement that the
This information may appear on another official label which, In s addition, shall give k&e name of the authority and of the country#
k. Any chemical treatmentsof the seed shall be noted either on the official label or on a special label and on the package or inside it»
 5* An official notice placed inside ..the . package shall give at least the reference number of the lot t the species and the variety , .
This notice is not necessary if the minimum information is printed indelibly on the package.
6. All information' required for official labels , official notices and packages shall be given in at least one of the official languages of the European Communities .
of Primary Industries" til:
"Department of A&riculture".
of Primary Industries" tiis •; ■ Artikel 4
"Department of Agriculture". •
Department of
■ "Department of Agriculture".
"Department of Agriculture".
Basic Seed oasisfro Certified certifi- Seed ceret fro
. Seed fre^
