In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
lefromentdur(l)estabrogé» Toutefoisildemeureapplicableaufromentdur
Draft i Draft Council Regulation on Aid for durum wheat .
With the introduction of a new production aid regime for durum wheat (by hectare rather than "by ton) for the 1976/77 marketing year, certain technical problems arise regarding the application of the new regime.
Whilst on the one hand the double declaration at seeding and harvest could prove onerous for national administration, on the other, checking such declaration would be impracticable.
Since, after harvesting, it is difficult to distinguish common wheat, checking cannot be effectively carried out. On the other hand such control can be much more effectively exercised during the growing period between March and harvest.
It thus seems timely to revise the declaration so as to make it simpler and provide for the control to be based on areas on which the normal stages of
• cultivation have been carried out .
 COUNCIL REGULATION1 ( SBC ) NO / 76 of
on aid on durum wheat
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 of 29 October 1975 on the common organization of the market in cereals as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1143/76 and in particular Article 10(4) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 provides that aid shall be granted for the production of durum wheat in the Communityt "whereas, to promote a general improvement in quality and to guarantee that the durum wheat harvested is suitable, in particular, for the manufacture of pasta products, it should be stipulated that the qualitative and technical characteristics which durum wheat must have in order to be eligible for
aid must "be determined in accordance with these objectives;
Whereas, pursuant to Article 10(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75? aid is
granted by the Member States per hectare of land sown and harvested; whereas • in this respect it is reasonable to assume that all areas sown to durum wheat and for which the normal stages of cultivation have been carried out will be
Whereas the proper working of the aid system requires supervision on the part
of the Member States in order to ensure that aid is granted only for the areas concerned and for eligible products; whereas such control can only be effectively exercised during the growing season; whereas, to this end, provision should
be made for the introduction, by each Member State concerned, of a system of declarations relating to such areas;
1. Member States shall grant the aid referred to in Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 for the production of durum wheat on their territory under the conditions set out in the following Articles.
2* An area of durum wheat shall be considered sown and harvested in the sense of Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 2777/75 when this area has
undergone the normal stages of cultivation necessary for the production of common wheat .
For the purposes of this Regulation, durum wheat means wheat of the Triticua durum speoies and the hybrids derived from the interspecific crossing of Triticura durum which have the same number of chromosomes as that species . .
The qualitative and teohnical characteristics which durum wheat must have
in order to be eligible for aid must guarantee that the product is suitable for use by the durum meal industry and for the manufacture of pasta products and that the products therefrom satisfy certain requirements as regards sui­ tability forihuman consumption.
Member States shall introduce a system of administrative supervision
to endure that a product for which aid is required meets the requirements
for granting such aid.
Tor the purposes of such supervision, Member States shall introduce
a system of declarations relating to the areascultivated and the seed varieties used. Such a declaration shall be equivalent to an application
Member States shall carry out random sampling spot checks to ascertain the accuracy of declarations refined to in Article 4» paragraph 2.
' The amount of aid to be paid shall be calculated on the basis of the area cultivated .
Producer Kerober States shall taform the Commission of the measures taken pursuant to this Regulation and provide it with infomation relating, in particular, to the areas for which aid has been granted.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1147/76 of 17 Kay 1976 on aid for durum wheat 3), 3) OJ lïo L 130, 19- 5*1976, p. 11»
 is repealed* However, it remains applicable for durum wheat "benefitting from aid "by way of the 1976/77 marketing year.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels . For the Commission
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
on aid for durum wheat
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
Draft i Council Regulation on Aid for durum wheat .
With the introduction of a new production aid regime for durum wheat (■by- hectare rather than "by ton) for the 1976/77 marketing year, certain technical problems arise regarding the application of the new regime.
Whilst on the one hand the double declaration at seeding and harvest could
prove onerous for national administration, on the other, checking such declaration would be impracticable.
Since, after harvesting, it is difficult to distinguish common wheat, checking cannot be effectively carried out. On the other hand such control can be much more effectively exercised during the growing period between March and harvest.
It thus seems timely to revise the declaration so as to make it simpler and
provide for the control to be based on areas on which the normal stages of cultivation have been carried out.
Saving regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 of 29 October 1975 on the common organization of the market in cereals 1 , as last amended by
Regulation (EEC) No 1143/76 2\ and in particular Article 10(4) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 provides that aid shall be grantedfortheproductionofdurumwhaatintheCommunityi whereas,to promote a general improvement in quality arid to guarantee that the durum wheat harvested is suitable, in particular, for the manufacture of pasta products, it should be stipulated that the qualitative and technical
characteristics which durum wheat must have in order to be eligible for aid must be determined in accordance with these objectives;
Whereas, pursuant to Article 10(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75, aid is
granted by the Member States per hectare sown and harvested; whereas it is reasonable to assume for this purpose that all areas sown to durum wheat
and for which the normal stages of cultivation have been carried out will be harvested .
Whereas the proper working of the aid system requires supervision on the part
of the Member States in order to ensure that aid is granted only for the areas concerned and for eligible products? whereas such control can only be effectively exercised during the growing season} whereas, to this end, provision should
be made for the introduction, by each Member State concerned, of a system of declarations relating to such areas; !
1. Member States-shall grant the aid referred to in Article,10 of Regulation
(EEC) No 2727/75 for the production of durum wheat on their territory under the conditions set out in the following Articles.
2. An area of durum wheat shall be regarded as sown and harvested for purposes of Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) Mo 2777/75 when it has undergone the normal stages of cultivation necessary for the production of common
wheat and is in the course of growth.
cultivated.
For the purposes of this Regulation, 1 durum wheat" means wheat of the Triticum dumm speoies and the hybrids derived from the interspecific crossing of Triticum durum which have the same number of chromosomes as that species.
The qualitative and teohnical characteristics which durum wheat must have •in order to be eligible for aid must guarantee that the product is suitable for use by the durum meal industry and for the manufacture of pasta products and that the products therefrom satisfy certain requirements as regards sui­ tability fori human consumption.
Member States shall introduce a system of administrative supervision
to endure that a product for which aid is required meets the requirements for granting such aid.
For the purposes of such supervision^ Member States shall introduce
a system of declarations relating to the areas cultivated and the seed varieties used. Such a declaration shall be equivalent to an application
Member States shall oarry out random on-the-spot checks to ascertain the * accuracy of declarations as referred to in Article 4 (2).
The amount of aid *to "be paid shall "be calculated on the "basis of the area
Producer Member States shall inform the Commission of the measures taken pursuant to this Regulation and provide it with information relating, in particular, totheareasforwhichaidhasbeengranted.
Council Regulation (EEC) No 1147/76 of 17 May 1976 on aid for durum wheat 3) 3) OJ No L 130, 19. 5-1976, p. 11.
is hereby repealed . However , it shall remain applicable to durum wheat qualifying for aid in respect of the marketing year 1976/77.
This Regulation shall enter into force onte third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels . For the Commission
