In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(iv) importationsetexportationsprévues(articles24et25)
Poids ùeâ 6 isotopes fissiles s s s £
- Accord international :
(13) - Accord international :
de thorium
VERFUHJM ..__ Artikel 3S (ex 37;
d) PrUf– und Esperimentiersone, Laboratorien;
Versand SD
0) Versand CüD)i
(c) area reattore ;
– thorium
 of delen
regel of trim s-taven :
ri . \ is ).
vaste of vloeibare afvalstoffen­
cate cul Plice of Dirpatch of ?ipari
weight of Fis3ile Isotopes
Woight of Sloraent
Naae end Position of Responsible Signatory
• vermeld onder (2)).
slak, slib, fijnslib, andere) SN
Toestand Code
Weight of Element
Weight of Fienile
J)ate mid Placo of Dinpilch of ftcport
IJsrr.s and Fosition of ficRponeiblo Signatorc
Height of Elo.-nent ■*» o o o
Hunberof Katerial HV Q
Cate and Placo of 2i3p*tch of Híport
"Jean-I.fonnet"~gebouw, Kirchberg te Luxemburg (Groothertogdom Luxemburg) . •
COM(76)235 final Brussels , 14th July 1976
NOTE* As a guide in understanding the previous article number taken from Annex I of "the interim report of the Working Party On
Atomic Questions (R/1283/76 (AT059)) has been added in brackets to each article .
 The Commission of the European Communities ;
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy- Community, and in particular Articles 77f 78, 79» 81 thereof;
Having regard to the approval of the Council;
Whereas Commission of the European Atomic Energy Community Regulation
No 7 of 18 February 1959 established the implementing procedures for the declarations required "by Article 78 of the Treaty' ;
Whereas Commission of the European Atomic Energy Community Regulation
Ho 8 defined the nature and the extent of the requirements referred to
in Article 7$ of the Treaty2 ;
Whereas, in view of the increasing quantities of nuclear materials produced, used and carried in the Community and the development of trade in these materials, it is essential, in order to ensure the effectiveness of safe­ guards, that the nature and the extent of the requirements referred to in
Article 79 of the Treaty and laid out in Regulation No 8 referred to above , be defined and brought up to date in the ligfct of experience particularly with regard to the transportation of, or commerce in these materials. Whereas, moreover, the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, "the Federal Republic of Germany, Ireland the Italian Republic, the Grand . Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the European
OJ No 15, 12 March 1959* P* 298, and communication on the numbering i ? EAEC regulations, OJ No 34» 29 May 1959* P« 649
 Atomic Energy Commurity (Euratom) concluded on 5 April 1973 an agreement (hereinafter called "the Agreement") with the International Atomic Energy-
agency in implementation of Article III (l) and (4) of the Treaty on the Fon-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons;
Whereas the Agreement contains a particular undertaking entered into "by
the Community concerning the application of safeguards on source and special fissile materials on the territories of the Community Member States which have nuclear weapons of their own and which are parties to the Treaty on the Fon- Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and, in conjunction with the Community, to the Agreement concluded on 5 April 1973 with the International Atomic Energy Agency (hereinafter called "the Member States party to the Agreement"); Whereas the implementation of this undertaking requires the establishment
of particular procedures for the application of safeguards on the terri­ tories of the Member States party to the Agreement in order to amplify the provisions of the aforementioned regulations 7 and 8;
Whereas, moreover, the proceduresforeseenby this Agreement are in conformity with those devised in the course of a very wide-ranging international negociation conducted, in view of the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 4 of Article III of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, with the International Atomic Energy Agency, the result of which has been approved by the Board of Governors of that organisation, and that these procedures are based on the most modern developments in the field
of safeguards;
Whereas, accordingly, it is opportune to define new procedures for the application of the provisions of Chapter VII of the Treaty;
Whereas the Community, the United Kingdom and the International Atomic Energy Agency have concluded on an Agreement comprising a particular . commitment which concerns the application of safeguards to source and special fissile materials on the territory of the United Kingdom;
Whereas it is appropriate to arrange for particular provisions relative to the accounting system and the presentation of records concerning ores ;
Whereas,on the territories of the Member States not party to the Agreement, some installations or parts thereof as well as certain materials are liable
 to "be involved in the production cycle for defence needs, therefore it is appropriate to Bpecify particular safeguard procedures to take account of these circumstances;
Whereas, for clarity's sake, and particularly to make the respect of safeguards regulations easier for those concerned, it is appropriate to codify these regulations in a single text :
Any person or undertaking setting up or operating an installation for the production, separation or other use of source materials
or special fissile materials or for the processing of irradiated nuclear fuels shall declare to the Commission the basic technical
characteristics of the installation^, on the basis of the relevant questionnaire given in Annex I of this Regulation.
Any person or undertaking responsible for the storage of source materials or special fissile materials shall be subject to the provisions of paragraph 1a
Where the basic technical characteristics of an installation have already been communicated to the Commission, the declarations specified in Article 1 of this Regulation may be made by reference
to such earlier communication, provided that anyadditional information required by the questionnaire referred to in Article 1 of this Regulation is supplied within 50 days from the date on which this Regulation comes into force#
The basic technical characteristics of new installations shall be declared as laid down in Article 1 of this Regulation at least
45 days before the first consignment of nuclear material is due to be received*
The particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7 shall specify those important types of change in the basic technical characteristics forwhich advance notification is requirod0
 Any other changes in the basic technical characteristics shall be communicated to the Commission, together witft the first inventory- change report made after the modification is complete*
Λ On receipt of a reasoned request) the Commission may allow
additional time for the completion of the declarations required in the preceding Articles*
The provisions of Article 1 of this Regulation shall not apply to persons or undertakings holding only nuclear materials exempted from the declaration requirements of Article 22 of this Regulation*
The persons or undertakings referred to in Article 1 of this Regulation shall also communicate to the Commission, for the planning of its safeguard activities, the following information s
(a) annually, an outline programme of activities drawn up in accordance with the particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7» the first communication being made on the basis
of the guidelines given in Annex IX, at the same time as that
of the basiP technical characteristics referred to in Article 1 j
(b) at least 40 days before beginning the preparation of a physical inventory, the programme for such work j
(c) at least 40sdays before the date for starting to shut donn
a batch-loaded reactor for reloading, the programme in respect
of suoh shutting down unless otherwise provided in the particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7*
Any change affecting programmes for the preparation of physical inventories or for the shutting down of reactors to reload shall be communicated to the Commission without delay0
Acting on the declarations of "basic technical characteristics and
on the information coramujiicated in pursuance of Article 6 of this Regulation, the Commission shall specify in a particular safeguard provision the pro­ cedures "by which the persons or undertakings concerned shall meet the re­ quirements in relation to safeguards imposed on them. These procedures shall include :
(a) the designation of the material "balance area and the selection of those strategic points which are key measurement points for determining the flow and stocks of nuclear materials;
(b) the procedures for keeping records of nuclear materials for each material "balance area and for drawing up reports;
(c) the frequency of and procedures for drawing up physical inventories for accounting purposes as part of safeguard measures;
(d) containment and surveillance measures, in accordance with the modalities agreed upon with the plant operators.
The particular safeguard provisions shall also lay down the content of subsequent communications required under Article 6 of this Regulation as well as the conditions requiring advance notification of shipments and receipts of nuclear material.
The particular safeguard provisions referred to m Article 7 shall
"be drawn up "by means of an individual decision of the Commission after cort- sultation with the person or undertaking concerned and the appropriate Member State .
The person or undertaking affected by any individual decision of the Commission will be notified thereof, and a copy of such notification will be transmitted to the Member State concerned.
The persons and undertakings referred to in Article 1 of this Regulation shall maintain systems of accounting for and control of nuclear materials. These systems shall include accounting and operating records and, in particular, information on the quantities, nature, form and compo­
sition of these materials in accordance with the requirements of Article 21
of this Regulation, their actual location, the particular safeguarding
obligation, and the way in which the persons or undertakings concerned have
stated that they intend to use such materials, in accordance with their
own decisions, as well as the shipper or recipient when materials are trans­ ferred.
The system of measurements on which the records cure based shall comply with the most recent international standards or shall be equi­ valent in quality to those standards® On the basis of these records
it must be possible to. establish and justify the communications addressed to the Commission in the form and at the intervals laid down in Articles 12 to 21 of this Regulation. Records jtffcll be retained
for a period of at least five years«
The accounting records shall show in respect of each material balanoe area t
(a) all inventory changes, so as to permit a determination of the hook inventory at any time {
(b) all measurement and counting results that are used for determination of the physical inventory j
(c) all corrections that have been made in respect of inventory changes, book inventories and physical inventories*
For all inventory changes and physical inventories the accounting records shall show, in respect of each batch of nuclear material* material identification, batch data and source data* These records shall account separately for uranium, thorium and plutonium in each batch of nuclear material* For each inventory change, the date of the inventory change and, when appropriate, the dispatching material balance area and the receiving balance area or the recipient, shall be indicated*
The operating recordsshall include, if appropriate9 for each material balance area I
(a) those operating data which are used to establish changes in the quantities and composition of the nuclear material }
(b) the data obtained from the calibration of tanks said instruments and from sampling and analysis, the procedures to control the quality of measurements and the derived estimates of random and systematic error |
(c) a description of the sequence of actions taken in preparing for, and in taking, a physical inventory in order to ensure that
it is correct and complete {
(d) a description of the actions taken in order to ascertain the cause and magnitude of any accidental or unmeasured loss that might occur*
The persons and undertakings referred to in Article 1 of this Begulation shall provide the Commission with accounting reports and, when appropriate, with special reports*
The accounting reports shall set forth the information available on the date of reporting and must be corrected at a later data if necessary *
On a reasoned request by the Commission, further details or explanations in connection with these reports shall be supplied normally within three weeks of that request*
The persons and undertakings referred to in Article 1 .shall transmit to the Commission an initial book inventory of all nuclear materials which for any reason they have in. their possession,
within 15 days of the last day of the month in which this Regulation oomes into force# This book inventory shall describe the situation on the last day of that months The form set out in Annex IV to this Regulation shall be used for this purpose#
For eaoh material balance area, the persons and undertakings referred to in Article 1 shall transmit to the Commission inventory ohange report* in respeot of all nuclear materials in accordance with, the speclinen set out in Annex II to this Regulation#
The reports shall identify the materials and give batch data
for eaoh batch thereof, the date of the inventory change and,
as appropriate, the dispatching material balance area and tlie receiving material balance area or the recipient*
The reports concerning transfers shall also .......
indicate for receipts the intended use and for dispatches the use mado of
the nuclear materials in the reporting installation. Unless; otherwise defined in the particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7, no declaration of use is mandatory for transfers between different material "balance areas
of the same installation.
Thee© reports showing inventory changes, book inventories and corrections shall be sent as soon as possible and, in any case, within 15 days after the end of the month in which the inventory changes occur or are known, either periodically in a consolidated list or individualIv'0 2?or months in which no inventory'changes occur, the persons or undertakings concerned may simply send in the form intendedfor the inventory;change report carrying the indication
 that the situation remained unchanged.* Small inventory changes,
such as transfers of samples for purposes of analysis, may be grouped., as laid down in the particular safeguard provision for the installation ooncerned, in order that they may "be reported as a single inventory change®
The reports referred to in Article 14 shall he aocompanied by conoise notes t
(a) explaining the inventory changes on the basis of the operating data contained in the operating records provided for in Article 11 (a) of this Regulation f
(b) describing as specified in the particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7» the planned operational programme
for the installation concerned and , in particular , the taking
of & physical inventory0 If the required information is contained in documents which already exist, copies of such documents may take the place of the concise notes*
Material Balance Report and Physical Inventory Listing Article 16 /ex 1Jjj7
For each material balance area, the persons and undertakings referred to in Article 1 shall transmit to the Commission,
in accordance with the specimen set out in Annex III to this Regulation , material balance reports showing t
(a) initial physical inventory ;
(b) inventory changes (first increases, then decreases) )
(d) final physical inventory { (e) material unaccounted for*
A statement of the physical inventory,, in accordance with the specimen set out in Annex IV to this Regulation, listing all batches separately, identifying the materials and giving batch data for each batch thereof and the use which the persons or undertakings concerned intend to make of the materials, shall be attached to each material balance report•
These reports shall be transmitted as soon as possible and
in any case within 30 days from the date on which a physical inven­ tory was taken, unless otherwise specified in the particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7o
The persons and undertakings referred to in Article 1 shall transmit to the Commission a special report whenever the circumstances mentioned in Articles 18 and 2? arise•
The type of information to be dealt with in such reports shall be specified in the particular safeguard provision referred to
The special reports and further details or explanations which may be requested by the Commission in connection with these reports
shall be supplied without delay*
A special report must be made without delay:
(a) if, as a result of any unusual incident or circumstances, it is believed that there has been or might be a loss of nuclear material in excess of the limits specified for these purposes in the particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7, or
(b) if the containment has unexpectedly changed from that specified in the particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7, to a point where an unauthorized removal of nuclear material has become possible .
The above-mentioned obligations shall devolve upon the persons and undertakings concerned as soon as they have become aware of any such loss or sudden change in the containment conditions, or of anything which leads them to believe that there has been such an occurrence. The causes shall also be
stated as soon as they are known.
 Detailed rules of application Article 19 /ex 177
In respect of reactors, the obligations laid do>m in Articles 10 to 16 shall apply under the following conditions :
As far as nnclear transformations are concerned, calculated data will
"be reported in the inventory change report at the latest when irradiated fuel
is transferred from the reactor material balance area. In addition, where
appropriate, other procedures for recording and reporting nuclear transforma^
tions shall be specified in the particular safeguard provision referred to in Artiole 1.
-Nuclear materials subject to particular safeguard obligations entered into
by the Community in an agreement concluded with a non-Member State or an inter­ national organisation shall, unless otherwise stipulated by such agreement, be identified separately for each obligation in the following notifications:
(ii) inventory change reports, but excluding book inventories (Article 14)
(iii) physical inventory listings (Article 16), and
(iv) intended imports and exports (Articles 24 and 25).
Unless specifically prohibited in the agreement referred to above, such separatio shall not preclude the physical mixing of materials.
This Article shall not apply to the Agreement or to any other agreement concluded by the Community and a Member State with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
In any notification referred to in this Regulation, quantities of source materials shall be expressed in kilogrammes and quantities of special fissile materials in grammes.
The corresponding materials accounting records shall be kept in the units referred to in (a) of this Article or in smalle:.* units. They
In order to take account of any particular circumstances in which safeguarded, materials are used or produced, the Commission may, in the particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7» grant producers and users of nuclear materials a derogation from the rules governing the form and frequenoy of notification provided for in this Regulation.
The Commission may so decide especially in the case of installations holding only small quantities which are kept in the same state for long periods.
At the request of the persons or undertakings concerned in accordance with the form set out in Annex VIII to this Regulation, the Commission may
exempt the following materials from declaration, provided that they are not processed4 or stored together with non-exempted nuclear materials*
– special fissile materials which are used in quantities of a gramme or less as sensitive components in instruments;
- Plutonium with an isotopic concentration of plutoniuin-238 in excess of 80%:- -
- nuclear materials which are used exclusively in non-nuclear activities.
If the conditions for exemption cease to be fulfilled, the exemption shall be rescinded. The person or undertaking concerned shall inform the Commission in accordance with the form set out in Annex Villa that the conditions for exemption no longer exist.
This Regulation shall not apply to 'holders of finished products used
for non-nuclear purposes which incorporate nuclear materials that are virtually irrecoverable .
 shall be kept in such a manner as to render them trustworthy and, in particular, to comply with current practices in the Membc* States.
In the notifications provided for above, quantities may be rounded down to the nearest unit for decimals 0 to 4 and rounded up for decimals 5 to 9.
Unless otherwise provided in referred to in Article 7t
the particular safeguard provision
the total weight of the elements
or plutonium and also , for enriched the fissile isotopes . The isotopic recorded at the installation for
(i) notifications shall indicate
contained : uranium , thorium
uranium , the total weight of
composition of plutonium, if
operational needs, shall be made available to the Commission on request )
(ii) separate line entries in inventory change reports and in physical &
inventory listings and separate material balance reports must be used for the following categories of nuclear material:
– uranium enriched up to 20$> – uranium enriched above 2<$
(a) The per.sons and undertakings referred to in Article I which export source or special fissile materials to a non-Member State shall give ad­
vance notification to the Commission of every such export . Similarly , advance notification shall be given to the Commission
- in the case of any such export from a Member State party to the Agreement
to a Member State not party to the Agreement , and
– in the case of any such export from the United Kingdom to a Member
State party to the Agreement,.
However, advance notification is required only:
(i) whefb the consignment exceeds one effective kilogrannej *
(ii) where the particular safeguard provision referred to in
Article 7 so specifies, in the case of installations habitually transferring large total quantities of materials to the same State, even though no single consignment exceeds one effective kilogramme .
Such notification shall "be given after the conclusion of the contractual arrangements leading to the transfer and in any case in
time to reach the Commission eight working days "before the material . is to "be prepared for shipment.
. Such notification shall "be given in accordance with the form set out in Annex V to this Regulation and shall state , inter alia ,
- the identification and , if possible , the expected quantity to be transferred, and the material balance area from which it will come;
- the State to which the nuclear material is to be sent}
- the dates on and locations at which the nuclear material will be prepared for shipment;
- the approximate dates of dispatch and arrival of the nuclear material;
- the use ^rhich the persons or undertakings concerned had made of the nuclear material.
If so required for reasons of physical protection, special arrangements concerning the form and transmission of such notification may be agreed upon with the Commission.
The persons and undertakings referred to in Article 1 which import source or special fissile materials from a non-Member State shall give ad­
vance notification to the Commission of every such import. Similarly, ad­ vance notification shall be given to the Commission
– in the case of any such import into a Member State party to the Agreement
from a Member State not party to the Agreement , and
– in the case of any such import^ into the United Kingdom from a Member State
party to the Agreement.
However, advance notification is required only:
(i) where the consignment exceeds one effective kilogramme;
(ii) or where the particular safeguard provision referred to in Article 7 so specifies, in the case of installations to which large "total quantities of materials are habitually transferred from the same State, even though no single consignment exceeds one effective kilogramme.
Such notification shall he given as far in advance as possible of the expected arrival of the nuclear material uJ., in any case, on the date of receipt arid in time to reach the Commission five working days before the material is unpacked.
Such notification shall be given in accordance with the form Bet out in Annex VI to this Regulation and shall state, inter alia:
-theidentificationand, ifpossible, theexpectedquantityandcomposition of the material;
- the expected date of arrival , the location where and the date on which the nuclear material is expected to be unpacked.
If so required for reasons of physical protection, special arrangements
concerning the form and transmission of such notification may be agreed upon with the Commission.
When persons or undertakings not subject to Article 1, decide to export or import nuclear materials referred to in Articles 24 and 25, these persons or undertakings are reqtiired to make the notifications foreseen in Articles 24
A special jeport as provided for in Article 17 of this Regulation shall be prepared by the persons or undertakings covered by Articles 24 , 25 and
26 if, following exceptional circumstances or an incident, the/ have received information that nuclear materials have been or appear to be lost , particu- larly when there has been a considerable delay during transfer.
Any change of date in the preparation for shipment , in the shipment or
in the unpacking of nuclear materials with respect to the dates given in the notifications provided for in Articles 24 and 25 of this Regulation, but not a change that gives rise to special reports , shall be communicated without delay, with an indication of the revised dates, if known.
and 25.
Any person or undertaking extracting ores on the territory of a Member State shall keep accounting records thereof . These records must indicate , in par­ ticular, the tonnage and average uranium and thorium content of the ore extracted and of the stock at the mine, and proof of shipment, stating the datet consignee, and quantity. Such records shall "be kept for at least five years .
Ho later than the end of January each year, producers of ores shall inform the Commission, in accordance with the form set out in Annex VII to this Regulation, of the amount of material dispatched from each mine during the previous year.
Any person or undertaking exporting ores to non-Member States shall inform the Commission thereof, in accordance with the form set out in Annex VII, on the actual date of dispatch.
Any person or undertaking engaged, within the territories of the Member States, in carrying or temporarily storing source or special fissile materials during shipment nay accept them or hand them over only against a duly signed and
dated receipt. This shall state the names of the parties handing over and receiving the materials and the quantities carried, together with the nature, form and composition of the materials*
If so required for reasons of physical protection, the specification of the materials transferred may "be replaced by a suitable identification of the consignment. Such identification shall be traceable to records held by the persons and undertakings referred to in Article 1 and showing the specification mentioned.
Such documents shall be kept by the contracting parties for at least one year#
Documents and papers already held and compiled by persons or undertakings
in accordance with existing regulations which apply to them on the territory
of the Member States in which they operate may take the place of the records
and receipts provided for in Article 32, provided that such documents and papers contain all the required information.
Every intermediary whatsoever, in particularauthorizedagents, brokers,
commission or business agents, taking part in the conclusion of any contract
for the supply of nuclear materials shall keep all documents relating to the transactions performed by him or on his behalf on records for at least one* -X-
year after the expiry of the contract. Such documents shall mention the names of the contracting parties, the date of the contract, the quantity, nature,
form and composition together with the origin and destination of the~ materials.
The provisions of this Regulation shall not apply
(a) toinstallationsorpartsofinstallationswhichhavebeen
assigned to meet defence requirements and which are situated
on the territory of a Member State not party to the Agreement; or
(b) tonuclearmaterialswhichhavebeenassignedtomeetdefence requirements by such a Member State.
Por nuclear materials, installations or parts of installations which
are liable to be assigned to meet defence requirements and which are situated on the territories of Member States not party to the Agreement, the extent of the application of this Regulation and the procedures under it shall be* defined by the Commission in consultation and in agreement with the Member State concerned, taking into account the provisions of article 84, second paragraph, of the Treaty.
It is understood in any event that
(a) theprovisionsofarticles1to4»7and8shallapplytoinstallations or parts of installations which at certain times are operated exclusively with nuclear materials liable to be assigned to meet defence requirements but at other times are operated exclusively
with civil nuclear materials!
(b) theprovisionsofarticles1to4,7and8shallapply,with exceptions for reasons of national security, to installations or parts of installations to which access could be restricted for such reasons but which produce, treat, separate, reprocess or use in any other way simultaneously both civil nuclear materials ".id nuclear materials assigned or liable to be assigned to meet defence requirements:
(c) theprovisionsofarticles^and9to37shallapplyir, relation
to all civil nuclear materials situated in installations or parts
of installations as referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) j : g above.
For the purposes of this Regulation
(a) "Agreement" means the Agreement concluded on 5 April 1973 between
the Kingdom of Belgium , the Kingdom of Denmark , the Federal Republic
of Germany, Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) with the International Atomic Energy Agency, in implementation
of paragraphs 1 and 4 of Article III of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
(bj "Member State party to the Agreement" means the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Oermany, Ireland, the Italian Republic, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg or the Kingdom of the Netherlands.
"Member State not party to the Agreement" means France or the United King­ dom .
"Non-Member State" means any State which is not a member of the European Atomic Energy Community.
"Special fissile materials " means plutonium-239 ; uraniura-233 ; uranium enriched in uranium-235 or uranium-233t and any substance containing one or more of the foregoing isotopes and such other fissile materials as may be specified by the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission; the expression "special fissile materials" does not, however, include source materials.
 (f) "Uranium enriched in uranium-235 or uraniui^BB'1 means uranium containing uranium-235 or uranium-233 or both in an amount
such that the abundance ratio of the sum of these isotopes to isotope 238 is greater than the ratio of isotope 235 "to isotope 238 occurring in nature. "Enrichment" means the ratio of the combined weight of uranium-233 and uranium-235 "to. the total weight of the uranium under consideration .
(g) "Source materials" means uranium containing the mixture of isotopes
occurring in nature; uranium whose content in uranium-235 is less
than the normal } thorium ; any of the foregoing in the form of metal ,
alloy ; chemical compound or concentrate ; any other substance contain­
ing one or more of the foregoing in such a concentration as shall be
specified by the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal
from the Commission, and any other material which the Council may
determine, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal flrom the Commission. The words "source materials" shall not be taken to include
ores- or-ore waste. 3
 (h) "Ores'1 means any ore containing, in such average concentration
as shall be specified "by the Council acting "by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, substances from which the source materials defined above may be obtained by the appropriate chemical and physical processing.
(i) "Nuclear materials" means any ore, source and special fissile material as defined in paragraphs (e), (f), (g) and (h) above.
(j) "Nature" of a material means natural uranium, depleted uranium, uranium enriched in uranium-235 or uranium-233, thorium or plutonium, depending on the case.
(k) "Batch" means a portion of nuclear material handled as a unit for accounting purposes at a key measurement point and for which
the composition and quantity are defined by a single set of specifications or measurements. The nuclear material may be in bulk form or contained in a number of identifiable items.
(l) "Batch data" means the total weight of each element of nuclear material and, in the case of plutonium and uranium, the isotopic composition when appropriate. For reporting purposes the weights of individual items in the batch shall be added together before rounding to the nearest unit.
(m) "Book inventory" of a material balance area means the algebraic sum of the most recent physical inventory of that material balance area and of all inventory changes that have occurred since that physical inventory was taken.
 (n) "Correction" means an entry in an accounting record or a report to rectify an identified mistake or to reflect an improved measurement of a quantity previously entered into the record or report. Each correction must identify the entry to which it pertains .
(o) "Effective kilogram" means a special unit used in safeguarding nuclear material. The quantity in effective kilograms is obtained "by taking:
( i ) for plutonium , its weight in kilograms ;
(ii) for uranium with an enrichment of 0.01 (1%) and above, its weight in kilograms multiplied "by the square of its enrichment ;
(iii) for uranium with an enrichment below 0.01 (l%) and absve
0.005 (0.5%)i its weight in kilograms multiplied by 0.0001, and
(iv) for depleted uranium vrith an enrichment of 0.005 (0.5%) or below, and for thorium, its weight in kilograms multiplied by 0.00005.
 (p) "Inventory change" faeans an increase or decrease) in terms of batches , of nuclear material in a material balance area .
(q) "Key measurement point" means location where nuclear material
appears in such a form that it may be measured to determine
material flow or inventory. Key measurement points thus include)
but are not limited to, inputs and outputs (including measured discards) and storages in material balance areas.
"Material balance area" means an area such that :
(i) the quantity of nuclear material in each transfer into or out of each material balance area can be determined;
and -
(ii) the physical inventory of nuclear material in each material balance area can be determined when necessary in accordance with specified procedures,
in order that the material balance may be established. 2r
"Material unaccounted for" means the difference between physical inventory and book inventory.
(t) "Physical inventory"means the sura of all the measured or derived
estimates of batch quantities of nuclear material on hand at a given
time within a material balance area, obtained in accordance with specified procedures .
(u) "Shipper/receiver difference" means the difference between the quantity
of nuclear material in a batch as stated by the shipping material balance area and as measured at the receiving material balance area.
(v) "Source data" means those data, recorded during measurement or calibration or used to derive empirical relationships, which identify nuclear 2JC.ter.Lal and provide batch data . Source data, may include , for example , weight of compounds , conversion factors to determine weight of el errant , specific gravity, element concentration, isotopic ratios, rel.atiofcship betwoen volume and manometer readings and relationship between plutoniwr. produced and power generated.
 (w) "Strategic point" means a location selected during examination of design information where, under normal conditions and when combined with the information from all "strategic points" taken together,
the information necessary and sufficient for the implementation of safeguards measures tinder the Agreement is obtained and verified;
a "strategic point" may include any location where key measurements related to material balance accountancy are made and where containment and surveillance measures are executed .
Where an installation is controlled by a person or undertaking established outside the Community, any obligations imposed by this Regulation shall devolve upon the local management of the installation.
The Annexes to this Regulation form an integral part thereof. The Commission may make minor technical adjustments thereto.
This Regulation shall enter into force 15 days after its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Without prejudice to Article 40, Regulations Nos ^ and 8 of
the Commission of the European Atomic Energy Communi+y are hereby repealed.
Articles 9 "to 16, 19 and 21 of this Regulation shall apply as from
the adoption of the particular safeguard provisions referred to in Article 7»
Until the adoption of those provisions, Articles 2, 5» 7» 8 and 10 of the abovementioned Regulation No 8 shall continue to apply.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council The President
2. Location,exactaddresswithtelephoneandtelexnumbers
3. Owner(legallyresponsiblebodyorindividual)
4. Operator(legallyresponsiblebodyorindividual)
7. Operatingmodeofinstallationinfluencingitsthroughput(shiftsystem
adopted, approximate dates of operating periods in year, etc.)
8. Layoutofinstallationsite. Kapshowingperimetersandpremisesof
the installation in the form of a site layout; buildings, roads, rivers, railways, etc.
N.B. l) Pursuant to Article 79 of the Treaty, those subject to safeguards requirements shall notify the authorities of the Member State concerned of any communications they make to the Commission pursuant to Article 78*
2) The reply "not applicable" can be given to questions which are not applicable. The Commission is still entitled to request any additional information it considers necessary in connection with the relevant questionnaire (or specimen).
This questionnaire, duly completed and signed, should be forwarded to the Commission of the European Communities, Euratom Safeguards Directorate, "J^an Monnet" building, Kirchberg, LUXEMBOURG (Grand Duchy of Luxembourg).
(a) rated thermal output per reactor for continuous operation; (t>) source and special fissionable material ;
Leycut of msiiallaT:1on :
struc li.ral containment , fences and access routes ; incoming material storage area ;
reactor area;
"f „st and experiment area, laboratories ;
outgoing material storage area ; nuclear material waste disposal .
Description of Nuclear Material (*)
11. Fuel element and/or assembly outline drawing in sufficient detail to indicate general structure with overall dimensions. (Element is
the smallest contained fuel unit; assembly is the combination of elements to a handling unit such as cluster or bundle. Provisions for element exchange should be shown if applicable and indication given if this , is
12. Fuel material (including material in control or shim assemblies if applicable ):
chemical composition or major alloy constituents ;
average enrichment per assembly ;
nominal weight of fuel material per assembly with design tolerances.
(*) Items 11-14 are to be answered for each type of assembly in the installation. Terminology consistent with 11 should be used.
material balance areas and inventory locations used for material balance accountancy and estimated range of inventories of nuclear material in these areas under normal operating conditions .
Expected nominal fuel cycle data including ( as applicable ) (a) reactor core loading;
(b) expected burn-up ;
(c) annual refuelling amount ;
(d) refuelling interval (on-load or off-load);
(e) approximate forecast of throughput and inventory and of receipts
and shipments. Handling of Nuclear Material
18. Layout and general arrangement description of packaging.
19. Layout and general arrangement
of fresh
of fresh
fuel storage , and
14» Method of identifying individual fuel elements and/or assemblies if applicable .
15. Other nuclear material used in the installation (state briefly material), purpose and way of using material , e.g. booster rods ).
Flow of Nuclear Material
16. Flowsheet showing points where nuclear material is identified or measured,
assay room and reactor loading
20. General arrangement drawings of fuel transfer equipment for fresh non-
irradiated fuel , including refuelling machines or equipment .
21. General arrangement drawing of reactor vessel, location of core and
openings in vessel , method of fuel handling in vessel .
22. Sketch of core showing the general disposition, lattice, form, pitch
and dimensions of core , reflector , location , shapes and dimensions of control elements , experimental and/ or irradiation positions .
23. Number and size of channels for fuel elements or assemblies and for control elements in the core .
(a) general arrangement drawings of storage site ; (b) method of storage;
(c) design capacity of storage;
(d) equipment for handling irradiated fuel; •
(e) minimum cooling time before shipment of irradiated fuel;
(f) drawing and description of shipping cask for irradiated fuel (as required to explore the possibility of sealing).
25. Nuclear material testing area (if applicable)
(a) brief description of the nature of the activities performed; (b) description of major equipment (e.g. hot cell, fuel element
decladding and dissolution equipment);
(c) description of shipping containers for nuclear material and packaging
of waste and scrap (as required to explore the possibility of sealing)'! •- (d) storage of unirradiated and irradiated nuclear material;
(e) layout and general arrangement drawings for the above, if not covered
elsewhere . Coolant Data
26. Coolant flow diagrams as required for heat balance calculations (indicating pressure, temperatures and mass flow rates at major points).
27 . Nuclear material control and accountancy system ( describe item and/ or
mass accountancy system, including relevant assay measurement methods used with assessed accuracies, supplying specimen blank forms used in all control
and accountancy procedures). Length of preservation of such records should be stated .
28. Description of procedures , scheduled frequency, methods of operator 's
inventory taking (both for item and/or mass accountancy including main assay methods), expected accuracy; access to nuclear material in the core
and to irradiated nuclear material outside the core, expected radiation levels .
29. Organisation of material accountancy and control.
30. Information on the health and safety rules which have to he observed and
with which the inspectors must comply at the installation.
2. Location, exact address with telephone and telex numbers
3. Owner ( legally responsible body or individual )
4. Operator ( legally responsible body or individual )
5. Present status ( in force or expected date of entry into force )
6. Purpose and type of installation
7. Operating mode of installation influencing its throughput . (Shift system adopted , approximate dates of operating periods in year etc .)
8. Layout of installation site . Map showing perimeters and premises of
the installation in the form of site layout ; buildings ,
9. Layout of installation :
(a) structural containment , fences and access routes ;
(b) nuclear material storage area(s);
(c) fuel element assembling area, laboratories, etc. ;
(d) critical assembly proper (*)
(a) maximum expected operating power and/or neutron flux; (b) main type(s) of nuclear material and enrichment;
Description of Nuclear Material
11. Description by means of drawings or otherwise of all nuclear material in installation showings
(a) all types of units including normal handling units;
(b) chemical composition or main alloy constituents;
(*) To be provided for each critical assembly if more than one in the installation.
(c) forra and dimensions;
(e) nominal wei^t of nuclear material with design tolerances;
(f) cladding material ; and
(g) method(s) of identifying units.
Location and Handling of Nuclear Material
12. Description "by means of layout and general arrangement drawings or otherwise of :
(a) nuclear material storage and assembly areas and critical assembly(ies ) proper (inventory locations);
(b) the estimated range of inventories of nuclear material in these locations ;
(c) the physical arrangement of equipment used for assembling, testing and measuring nuclear material ; and
(d) the routes of nuclear material.
Sketch of critical assembly core showing core support structure , shielding and heat removal arrangements with description (to be provided for each critical assembly if more than one in the installation).
14. Description of the nuclear material control and accountancy system (describe item and/or mass accountancy system, including main assay
methods used with assessed accuracies ), supplying specimen blank forms used in all control and accountancy procedures. Length of preservation of such records should be stated .
15. Description of procedures, scheduled frequency, methods of operator's
inventory taking (both for item and/or mass accountancy including main
assay methods), expected accuracy;: access to nuclear material in the core
and to irradiated nuclear material outside the core , expected radiation levels .
16. Organisation of material accountancy and control.
17. Information on the health and safety rules which have to he observed
and with which the inspectors must comply at the installation.
Location , exact address with . telephone and telex numbers
Owner (legally responsible body or individual)
Operator (legally responsible body or individual)
Present status (in force or expected date of entry into force)
Purpose and type of installation
Operating mode of installation influencing its throughput . (Shift system adopted , approximate dates of operating times in year , etc .)
Layout of installation site. Map showing perimeters and premises of
the installation in the form of a site layout ; buildings , roads , rivers , railways , etc .
Layout of installation s
(a) structural containment, fences and access routes; (b) routes followed by nuclear material;
(d) each main processing area and process laboratory; (e) test or experimental areas
(g) waste disposal facilities
(h) analytical laboratory.
Flow, Location and Handling of Nuclear Material
10. Flowsheet showing points where nuclear material is identified or measured, material balance areas and inventory locations used for material balance
,accountancy and estimated range of inventories of nuclear material in these areas under normal operating conditions. The description should include
Date of information
 (a) batch size or flow rate;
(t>) method of storage or packing;
general forecasts of throughput and inventory and of receipts and shipments.
12. In addition to 10 above, the description of the recycle stage of the process should include if available :
(a) duration of temporary storage;
(b) schedules for external recycling (if applicable).
13. In addition to 10 above, the description of the discard stage of the process should include : 7.
(a) the -discard method (disposal or storage).
14. Under equilibrium conditions for each flowsheet referred to in paragraphs 10 and 16 and assuming the modes of operation in paragraph 7» state :
(a) the nominal throughput per year;
(b) the in-process inventory based on design capacity
15. Describe the normal procedures adopted for complete or partial clean-out of the plant. Include description of special sampling and measurement points associated with the clean-out procedure and subsequent physical inventory taking, if not described in 10 above.
Description of Nuclear Material
16. Describe, by means of flowsheets or otherwise, the estimated flow and inventory of all nuclear material for storage and process areas.
Bie description should include :
(a) physical and chemical form;
(b) content range or expected upper limits for each category of solid or
addition to 10 above, feed storage areas for reprocessing plants
should be described by a general arrangement drawing showing - (a) locations for fuel elements and handling equipment ;
(b) type of fuel elements including nuclear material content and
17. Description of the accountancy system used to record and report accountancy data and establish material "balances, supplying specimen
forms used in all procedures! Length of preservation of such records should be stated .
18. Indicate when and how often material "balances are made, including any during campaigns. Describe method and procedure for adjustment of accounts after plant inventory taking.
19. Describe procedure for handling shipper/receiver differences and method of adjustment of accounts.
20. Describe procedure for making corrections to accounts due to procedural or clerical mistakes and the effect on shipper/receiver differences, if applicable .
21. Reference is made to paragraph 15. Identify the items of equipment on the flowsheets of paragraphs 10 and 16 to be regarded as containers for nuclear material under physical inventory conditions. State the timing of physical inventory taking during the campaign.
Methods for Measurement , Sajnr>linsr and Analysis
22. Method of establishing each measurement at the point indicated should be described; equations or tables used and calculations made to determine actual quantities of weights or volumes should be identified . Recording
of data automatically or manually should be stated. Method of and practical procedures for sampling for each point indicated should be described.
23. Analytical methods used for accountancy purposes should be described. Reference to a manual or report would be suitable.
Control of Measurement Accuracy
24» Describe measurement quality control programme relevant for material
accounting including programmes ( together with
the continuing appraisal of analytical , weight ,
precisions and "biases , and for the calibration of associated equipment ; method of calibrating the measuring equipment referred to in paragraph 23; type and quality of standards used for analytical methods referred to in paragraph 23 ; type of analytical equipment used , method of calibration and frequency .
Statistical Evaluation
25« Describe methods of statistical evaluation of data accumulated in measurement
control programmes for the evaluation of precision and accuracy of measurements and the estimation of measurement uncertainty (i.e. determination of the random and systematic errors of the measurements and the associated limits of error; statistical procedures used to combine individual
measurement error estimates to obtain the overall limits of error for S/R differences , the book inventory , the physical inventory and MUF).
26. Organisation of material accountancy and control .
27. Information on the health and safety rules which have to be observed and with which the inspectors must comply at the installation.
accuracy values ) for volume and sampling
2. Location, exact address with telephone and telex numbers
3. Owner ( legally responsible body or individual )
4. Operator ( legally responsible body or individual )
6. Purpose and type of installation
7. Layout of installation . Structural containment , fences and access
Description of Nuclear Material
8. Description by means of drawings or otherwise of all nuclear material in installation showing :
all types of units including normal handling units ; chemical composition or main alloy constituents ; form and dimensions ;
nominal weight of nuclear material with design tolerances; cladding materials ; and
methods of identifying units
(*) separate installations not normally associated with enrichment ,
fabrication , reactors , and chemical reprocessing and recovery installations .
Locations and handling of Nuclear Material
9. Description "by means of layout and general arrangement drawings or otherwise of :
(a) nuclear material storage areas ( inventory locations );
(b) the estimated range of inventories of nuclear material in
(c) nuclear material storage and/ or shipping containers ;
(d) the routes and equipment used for movement of nuclear material,
10. Description of the nuclear material control and accountancy system (describe item and/or mass accountancy system, including main assay
methods used with assessed accuracies ) , supplying specimen blank forms used in all control and accountancy procedures.
11 . Description of procedures , scheduled frequency , methods of operator 's inventory taking (both for item and/or mass accountancy including main assay methods ), and expected accuracy .
12. Organisation of material accountancy and control.
13. Information on the health and safety rules which have to be observed and with which the inspectors must comply at the installation.
Location, exact address with telephone and telex numbers
Owner ( legally responsible "body or individual ) Operator ( legally responsible "body or individual ) Présent status
Building schedule (if installation not in operation)
(b) date of installation acceptance
Purpose and type of installation (nominal separation capacity,
Operating mode of installation influencing its throughput . (Shift system adopted, approximate dates of operating times in year, etc.\
Layout of installation site. the installation in the form railways , etc .
Map showing perimeters and premises of
Date of information
of a site layout ; buildings ,
10. Layout of installation :
(b) containment of certain parts of the installation;
(c) routes followed by nuclear material;
(e) each main processing area and process laboratory, including weighing
and sampling area , decontamination , purification and feed areas , etc .;
(f) test or experimental areas;
(h) waste disposal facilities ; (i) analytical laboratory.
fences and access routes ;
Flow, Location and Handling: of Nuclear Material
11. Description by means of diagrams or otherwise of storage areas and process areas . The description should include ( if applicable ) :
(a) sampling and measuring points ; (b) batch size and/or flow rate; (c) method of storage or packing; (d) storage capacities.
12. In addition to 11 above, the description of the installation should include :
(c) possible points for feed, product and tails ;
(e) type and size of UF6 cylinders used and filling and emptying methods.
13. Power consumption should be given , where necessary .
14. Each diagram should indicate, under equilibrium conditions : (a) nominal throughput per year;
(b) physical inventory of in-process materials ;
( c) material loss rate owing to leakage , decomposition ,
(d) arrangements for regular plant maintenance
( periodic shutdown or continuous component replacement , etc .)
15. Describe special sampling and measurement points associated with decontamination of off-process plant for maintenace or replacement.
16. Describe process waste disposal point , including disposal method , storage period , type of disposal , etc .
 17 Description of nuclear material
Describe , by means of flowsheets or otherwise , the estimated flow and inventory of all nuclear material for storage and process areas.
The description should include s
(a) physical and chemical form;
(b) enrichment range for feed, product and tails ;
(c) content range or expected upper limits for each category of
solid or liquid discard material. NUCLEAR MATERIAL ACCOUNTANCY AND CONTROL
18. Description of the accountancy system used to record and report accountancy data and to establish material balances, supplying specimen forms used in all procedures.
19. Indicate when and how often material balances are made, including any during campaigns. Describe method and procedure for adjustment of accounts after plant inventory.
20 . Describe procedure for handling shipper/ receiver differences and method of adjustment of accounts.
21. Describe procedure for making corrections to accounts due to procedural ., or clerical mistakes and the effect on shipper/ receiver
22. Identify the items of equipment on the flowsheets of paragraphs 11 and 17
to be regarded as containers for nuclear material under physical inventory conditions. State the timing of physical inventory taking.
Methods for Measurement , Sampling and Analysis
23. Refer to the flowsheets of paragraphs 11 and 17 for location of sampling and measurement points . - - -
24. Method of establishing each measurement at the point indicated should
be described; equations or tables used and calculations made to determine actual quantities of weights or volumes should be identified. Recording of data automatically or manually should be stated. Method of and practical procedures for sampling for each point indicated should be described. Indicate number of samples taken and rejection criteria.
25. Analytical methods used for accountancy purposes should be described. Reference may be made to a manual or report .
Control of Measurement Accuracy
26 . Describe programmes for the continuous appraisal of weight , volume and sampling precisions and biases and for the calibration of associated equipment .
27. Describe type and quality of standards used for analytical methods referred to in paragraph 25 , type of analytical equipment used , method of calibration and frequency.
Statistical Evaluation
28. Describe statistical evaluation programmes for data accumulated in control programmes for weight , volume , sampling and analytical measurements
(i.e. determination of the random and systematic errors of the measurements and associated limits of error); statistical methods used to combine individual measurement error estimates to obtain the overall limits of
error for S/ R differences , the book inventory , the physical inventory and MUF.
29. Organisation of material accountancy and control.
30. Information on the health and safety rules which have to be observed and with which the inspectors must comply at the installation.
For any installation of a type not referred to in Sections A to E using more than one effective kilogram per annum, the questionnaire includes the following :
- Identification of the installation
- General arrangement of the installation, including features relating to
material accountancy, containment and surveillance
- Nuclear material control system, including techniques for physical
inventory taking.
- Information necessary for the application of safeguards.
3he information required under these headings is , as applicable , the same as described in the questionnaires for the types of installations coming under Sections C, D and E.
Location , exact address with telephone and telex Owner (legally responsible "body or individual) Operator ( legally responsible "body or individual ) Type of nuclear material
explore the possibility of sealing)
6. Description of the use of the nuclear material
5. Description of containers used for storage and handling (as required to
7. General description of the existing and proposed procedures for nuclear material accountancy and control, including procedures for physical inventory taking.
8. Organisation of material accountancy and control.
(*) The term "other" denotes all the installations not covered by questionnaires A to P, and where nuclear material in quantities not exceeding one effective kilogram is habitually used.
rate and Place of Dispatch of Report
Weight of Siornent
Weight of Fissile Isotopes
Name and Position of Responsible Signatory
Name and address of the reporting installation and, m the event of a transfer, name and address of the corresponding installation (receiver in the case of shipment and shipper in the case of receipt ) .
Code of the reporting material "balance area. This code is notified to the installation concerned in the particular safeguards provisions .
Day , month and year on which the change in inventory occurred .
Key measurement point. The codes are notified to the installation concerned in the particular safeguards provisions. The code relevant to the inventory change reported should he used.
Measurement :
The "basis on which the quantity of nuclear material reported was established has to be indicated. One of the following codes must "be used as appropriate :
Measured
E In the reporting material balance area
P In another material balance area
G In the reporting material balance area when the weights
have already been given in a previous inventory change report or physical inventory listing.
H In another material balance area when the weights have
already been given in a previous inventory change report or physical inventory listing for the present material balance area.
The type of inventory change must he reported. One of the following codes must be used :
Receipt from non- HIT safeguarded activity
Receipt of nuclear material from a material balance area within the
Import of nuclear material from outside the Community.
Receipt of nuclear material from a non–safeguarded (permitted military) activity (Art. 35 of this Regulation),
Transfer of nuclear material to a material balance area ivithin the Community.
Export of nuclear material outside the Community.
Transfer of nuclear material to a non-safeguarded (permitted military) activity (Art. 35 of this Regulation),
Shipment to non- SN safeguarded activity
Measured discards LD
of measurements , which has "been disposed of from processing in such a way that it is not suitable for further nuclear use. The quantity of nuclear material involved is to be subtracted from the inventory of the material balance area.
Quantity of waste , measured or estimated of the basis of measurements, which has been transferred to a specific location within the material balance area, from which it could be retrieved . The quantity of nuclear material involved is to be subtracted
Transfer to TW retained waste
of nuclear material ,
measured or estimated on the basis
from the inventory of the material balance area . ( Retained waste is understood to include nuclear
material which is regarded economically irrecoverable "by current technology).
FW Retransfer of a quantity of nuclear
Retransfer from retained waste
from the retained waste
to the inventory of the balance area . This applies
Discard from retained waste
whenever nuclear material in the retained waste category is removed
from the specific location within the material balance area either
for processing at the material balance area or for shipment from the material balance area.
WD Transfer of a quantity of nuclear material from the retained waste
category to measured discards . This
inventory change replaces the two inventory changes "Retransfer from retained waste (fty)" and. "Measured discards (LD)". The quantity of
affect the inventory of the material balance area .
LA Irretrievable and inadvertent loss
of a known quantity of nuclear material as the result of an
EU Exemption of a quantity of nuclear material from declaration (Art. 22
of this Regulation). The quantity of nuclear material involved is to be>
subtracted from the inventory of the material-balance area.
DU De-exemption of a quantity of nuclear material previously exempted from declaration (Art. 22 of this
Regulation). The quantity of nuclear material involved is to be added to
Rebatching RB
the inventory of the material balance area .
Accountancy transfer of a quantity
of nuclear material from one category (Art. 21 of this Regulation) to another.
Accountancy transfer of a quantity of nuclear material from one batch
to another. To be used only if batch- follow-up is required in the particular safeguards provisions.
Accountancy transfer of a quantity of nuclear material from one
particular safeguards obligation­ (Art. 20 of this Regulation), to which the nuclear material is subject to another .
Accountancy transfer of a quantity of nuclear material from one use; (Art. 9 of this Regulation), to which the material is declared, to another.
New measurement
Increase or decrease in the quantity of nuclear material due to nuclear
transformation , e.g. by fission , capture or radioactive decay.
DI Shipper/receiver difference (Art.36u of this Regulation).
NM Quantity of nuclear material accounted for in the material balance
area being the difference between a newly measured quantity and the quantity formerly accounted for , and which is neither a shipper/receiver difference nor a correction , (information under this heading will include differences resulting from physical inventories taken by the , plant operator for this own purposes).
RA Rounding adjustment to make the sum of rounded quantities reported in a
given period coincide with the ending book inventory of the material balance area , if appropriate .
BA Book inventory at the end of a month, separate for each category of nuclear
ITC No inventory change during the month.
For certain inventory changes listed "below, the code of the corresponding material "balance area must "be reported.
Code of the shipping material "balance area.
Code of the exporting material "balance area (if unknown, the country code of the exporting state is sufficient).
Code of the receiving material "balance area.
Code of the importing material "balance area (if unknovm, the country code of the importing state is sufficient).
The batch designation may "be chosen "by the operator, however
a) In the case of the inventory change "Receipt (RD)", the "batch designation chosen "by the shipper must be used;
b) A batch designation must not be used again for another batch in the same material balance area.
c) If batch-follow-up is required in the particular safeguards
provisions, the same batch designation as previously accounted for for that batch must be used. No two batches with the same
batch designation must exist at the same time in the material balance area (the batch designation can be changed in this case using the inventory change "Rebatching (RB)").
Number of Items :
The number of similar items of which the batch consists must be
reported. If an inventory change consists of several entry lines, the number of items in the batch is given by the sum of the number of items in the single entry lines.
For concise notes consisting of several entry lines, these columns should be used for numbering in sequential order , see ( 24 ).
The following codes must "be used. They must be used in the order of the following categories :
(a) Form (Columns 32 and 33) :
U4 solutions nitrate LU fluoride LP other LO FH EH CP CS other CO metal pure MP MA
sealed sources
EP bundles EB assemblies EA other EO QS
solid waste
liquid waste
other )
(t>) Type of container or fuel element (column 34) s
bird cage B bottle - P tank or other container T other 0
contaminated equipment
other A0
low active WL medium active VJIvI
(o) State of nuclear material (column 35) :
fresh nuclear material Ρ irradiated nuclear material I retained waste W irrecoverable material Ν
The follovjing categories of nuclear material must be used s
(up to and including 20 $ enrichment )
If a batcn contains more than one category of nuclear material, separate entry lines must be used for each category.
Weight of Element :
The weight of the element referred to in (ll) must "be reported. The following units should he used : at least grams of plutonium and enriched uranium, at least kilograms of thorium, natural uranium and depleted uranium. Nevertheless, the decimal digits appearing in the accounting records could he reported. In the case of the inventory changes "Nuclear Transformation (NT)", "Shipper/receiver difference (Dl)", "New Measurement (NM)" and "Roundings (RA), the quantities decreasing the inventory must t>e marked with a minus in front of the figure.
The unit of the weight of element must toe identified if it is different from the standard units indicated in (12). Use the code K for kilograms or the code G for grams.
This code indicates the kind of fissile isotopes involved and should only "be reported in the case tHe weight of fissile isotopes is reported. The following codes should "be used :
Weirfrt of Fissile Isotopes :
Unless otherwise stated in the particular safeguards provisions, the weight of fissile isotopes must only he reported for enriched uranium and . category changes involving enriched uranium . The same unit as for the corresponding weight of element should "be used.
The remarks under (12) concerning the sign of the figure apply also here .
The unit of the weight of fissile isotopes must "be identified if it is different from the standard units indicated in (l5)« Use the code K for kilograms or the code G for grams.
Indication c? the particular safeguards obligation assumed by the Community or by a Member State under an agreement concluded with a third state or an international organisation, to which the nuclear material is subject (Art . 20 of this Regulation). The Commission communicates to the installations the corresponding codes and their eventual modifications .
Indication, "by means of a two character code, of the use of __
the nuclear material _ (Art. 9 of this Regulation). The indication of the use is mandatory only for
transfers into and out of an installation (Art. 14 of this Regulation). The code to "be applied should be defined "by the installation con­ cerned tinder the following conditions :
a) All nuclear materials affected to the same use must "be identified "by the same code;
b) The significance of a code which is used for the first time must be communicated to the Commission in advance;
c) Different uses must "be identified "by means of different codes;
d) If, within the same installation, the nuclear material is affected to another use than previously reported, this change has
to "be accounted for "by means of the inventory change "Change in use (CU)".
For certain inventory changes listed oelow, corresponding information must "be reported .
Code of the category of nuclear material "before the change. (The corresponding code after the change must "be reported in (11)).
Code of the particular safeguards obligation, to which the nuclear material is subject, "before the change. (The correspond! code after the change must "be reported in (17)).
Code of the use, to which the nuclear material was affected, "before the change. (The corresponding code after the change must "be reported in (l8)).
d.) Rebatching (RB) :
Batch designation "before re"batching which applies only if "batch-follow-up is reqmred in the particular safeguards provisions and the operator wishes to change an existing
"batch designation. (The "batch designation after the rebatching must "be reported in (8)).
The entry line contains the isotooic composition , see ( 23 ) •
The entry line contains a concise ' note, see (24).
This column is provided solely for the indication of particular entry lines and must be completed only in the following cases s
Corrections have to "be performed by deleting the wrong entry line(s) and adding the correct one(s). The following codes must "be used :
Deletion. The entry line to "be deleted must "be repeated in its entirety (up to and including column 73)» except (3) which must contain the date on which the the deletion was accounted for ,
Addition. The correct entry line must "be reported in its entirety (up to and in­ cluding column 73)# In (3)f the date on
which the addition was accounted for,
In the case of a correction , the day , month and year , on which the entry line to be corrected was originally accounted for, must be reported.
If so specified in the particular safeguards provisions the percentage by weight of the isotopes should be reported. An accuracy of at least two decimal places is required. The information in (2) to (4)* (6) and (8) to (ll) of the entry line, to which the isotopic data refer, must be repeated in the relevant columns of this entry line .
An explanation of an inventory change should be given (Art. 15 of this Regulation). The information in (2) to (6), (8), (lO) and (ll) of the entry line, to which the concise note refers, must be repeated in the relevant columns of this entry line.
Concise notes can also be reported under (25) or as a separate letter .
Space available to the operator.
General remarks concerning the completion of the report forms :
1.) In the case of transfer of nuclear material, the shipper must provide' the receiver with all the necessary information for the inventory change report.
2.) In the cases referred to in (^9)» the differences are reported directly in a single entry line (Direct Accounting).
However, the operator is free to report additional information as line entries for example to show the derivation of these differences provided that he codes this information in an agreed manner.
3.) All the appropriate columns should "be completed. The information should "be entered in the correct spaces.
4.) If the Commission has so agreed, reports may "be produced by computer and may "be sent to the Commission in computer readable form, provided that all the information required by this Regulation is included in them.
If numerical data contain fractions of units, the decimal point should be used to separate the decimal places.
The following 54 characters may "be used : the 26 capital letters A to Z, figures 0 to 9 and the characters "plus", "minus", "slash", "asterisk", "space", "equal", 'greater than", "less than", "point", "comma", "open "bracket", "close bracket", "colon", "dollar", "percent", "quotation mark", "semi colon" and "question mark". The letter 0 should be slashed to avoid confusion with the figure 0.
Pursuant to Art. 79 of the Treaty, those subject to safeguards requirements shall notify the authorities of the Member State concerned of any communications they make to the Commission pursuant to that Article .
The forms , duly completed and signed , should be forwarded to the Commission of the European Communities, Euratom Safeguards Directorate, "Jean Monnet" building, Kirchberg, Luxembourg, (Grand Duchy of Luxembourg).
Weight of Fissile Isotopes
Weight of Element
Bate and
Dispatch of Report
and Position VI
of Kc^poncible Sir-natory
Name and address of the reporting installation.
Date on which the reporting period starts, i.e., at 00.00 hrs the day after the end of the previous reporting period (the day the previous material balance report was drawn up).
Category of nuclear material, for which the material "balance report is established.
Code of the reporting material "balance area. This code is notified to the installation concerned in the particular safe­ guards provisions.
Day, month and year on which the material "balance report was drawn up. The reporting period closes at 24.00 hrs on that date.
The different types of inventory information should "be entered, if appropriate, in the sequence indicated "below. The following codes must "be used s
Inventory changes (for codes see (6)
of explanatory notes to Annex II of this
Material " MF unaccounted for
Physical inventory at the beginning of the reporting period .
For each type of inventory change, one consolidated entry line has to be made for the entire reporting period (first increases, then decreases ).
Book inventory at the end of the reporting period .
Physical inventory at the end of the reporting period .
Material unaccounted for. Must
be calculated as "Ending physical
Separate material balance reports have to be established for each category of nuclear material. The codes given in (ll) of the explanatory notes to Annex II of this Regulation must be used.
(8) to (12) :
Explanatory notes (12), (13), (14y> (15) a-n<i (16) to Annex II of this Regulation are applicable.
Corrections have to be performed by deleting the vjrong entry line(s) and adding the correct one(s). The follovjing codes must be used :
Deletion. The entry line to be deleted must be repeated in its entirety (up to and including column 73).
Addition. The correct entry line must be reported in its entirety (up to and including column 73).
Space available to the operator.
General remarks concerning the corroíetion of the report forrs :
General remarks 3.), 4.), 5«)» 6«)» 7«) and 8.) at the end of the explanatory notes to Annex II of this Regulation are applicable
weignt of Element 1121
Weight of Fissile Isotopos
Date and Placo of Dicpatch of fleport
IJajno and Position of Responsible Signatory
Name and address of the reporting installation.
Code of the reporting material balance area . This code is notified to the installation concerned in the particular safeguards provisions .
Day, month and year on which the physical inventory was taken reflecting the situation at 24-00 hrs. This date must "be the same as that on which the corresponding material balance report was drawn up.
Key measurement point. The codes are notified to the installation concerned in the particular safeguards provisions.
Explanatory note (5) to Annex II of this Regulation is applicable.
If "batch–follow-up is required in the particular safeguards provisions, the "batch designation previously accounted for for that "batch in an inventory change report or in a previous physical inventory listing must "be used.
(7) to (16) :
Explanatory notes (9), (lO), (11), (12), (l3), (14), (15), (l6), (17) and (l8) to Annex II of this Regulation are applicable.
Corrections have to he performed "by deleting the wrong entry line(s) and adding the correct one(s). The folio-wing codes must be used 1
Deletion. The entry line to be deleted must be repeated in its entirety (up to and including column 73)·
Addition. The correct entry line muse be reported in its entirety (up to and including column 73)·
Space available to the operator.
General remarks concerning; the completion of the report forms
If on the date the physical inventory was taken there is no nuclear material in the material balance area , only ( l ), ( 2 ), (3) and (9) above should be completed on the report.
General remarks 3.)» 4»)» 5*)» 6.), 7.) and 8.) at the end of the explanatory notes to Annex II of this Regulation are applicable mutatis mutandis .
(l) Material "balance area Code : ..............
(4) Chemical composition :
(5) Enrichment or isotopical composition : (6) Physical form :
(7) Number of items :
(8) Description of containers and seals :
(lO) Means of transport :
(11) Location where material will "be stored or prepared :
(12) Last date when material can "be identified : ........
(13) Approximate dates of dispatch :
Expected dates of arrival :
- Intervention of Supply Agency
Name and position of responsible signatory
Sate and place of dispatch :
Code of the reporting material "balance area notified to the installation con­ cerned in the particular safeguards provisions.
Name, address and country of the installation shipping and of the installation receiving the nuclear material. In the case of export out of the United Kingdom, the receiver of ultimate destination should also "be indicated where applicable.
The total weight of the elements shall "be identified in kg for natural and depleted"uranium and for thorium, and in g for enriched uranium and plutoniun. The weight of fissile isotopies shall be identified , if applicable .
Chemical composition shall be identified.
If applicable, the degree of enrichment or the isotopic composition shall be identified .
Use the description of materials as laid out in Annex II (lO) of this Regulation .
The number of items included in the shipment shall be identified.
Description (type) of containers, including features that would permit sealing. Shipment identification data (e.g. container markings or numbers).
Indicate, as applicable, the means of transport.
Indicate the location within the material balance area where the nuclear material is prepared for shipping and can be identified, and where its quantity and composition can if possible be verified.
Last date when material can be identified and v;hen its quantity and comporji ' ion can if possible be verified.
Approximate dates of dispatch and of expected arrive.1 at destination. Indicate the use to which the nuclear material has been affected.
Give in particular as appropriate :
– the agreement concluded lay the Community with a Non-Member State or an international organisation, or the agreement concluded "by a Member State with a Non-Member State under which the material is transferred;
– the Commission authorization under Article 59 of the Euratom Treaty;
– the date on which the contract was concluded or considered as concluded by the Supply Agency and any useful references;
– for jobbing contracts (Article 75 "the Euratom Treaty) and for contracts for the supply of small quantities of material (Article 74 of the
Euratom Treaty and Commission Regulation Ifo. 17/66), date of notification to the Agency and any useful references.
NjB. : Pursuant to Article 79 of the Treaty, those subject to safeguard requirements shall notify the authorities of the Member State concerned
of any communications they make to the Commission pursuant to that Article.
This form, duly completed and signed, must be forwarded to the Commission of the European Communities , Euratom Safeguards Directorate , "Jean Konnet " building, Kirchberg, Luxembourg, (Grand Duchy of Luxembourg)•
(9) Means of transport :
 (10) Date of arrival :
(11) Location where materials will "be unpacked : (12) Date(s) when material vail "be unpacked s (13) - International agreement :
- Intervention of Supply Agency :
Name and position of responsible signatory
Date and place of dispatch :
(1) Code of the reporting material "balance area notified to the installation concerned in the particular safeguards provisions.
(2) Name, address and country of the installation receiving and of the installatio shipping the nuclear material.
(3) The total weight of the elements shall "be identified in kg for natural and depleted uranium and for thorium, and in g for enriched uranium and plutonium. The weight of fissile isotopes shall "be identified if applicable.
(4) Chemical composition shall "be identified.
(5) If applicable, the degree of enrichment or the isotopic composition shall "be identified .
(6) Use the description of materials as laid out in Annex II (10) of this Regulation.
(7) The number of items included in the shipment shall be identified.
(8) Description (type) of containers, and if possible, of the seals affixed.
(9) Indicated as applicable, the means of transport.
(10) Expected or actual date of arrival in the reporting material balance area.
(11) Indicate the location within the material balance area where the material will
be unpacked and can be identified and where its quantity and composition can be verified.
(12) Date(s) when material will be unpacked.
Give in particular as appropriate s
– "the agreement concluded "by the Community with a Non-Member State or an international organisation, or the agreement concluded by a Member State •with a Non-Member State • under which the material is transferred ;
– the date on which the contract was concluded or considered as concluded by the Supply Agency and any useful references;
– for jobbing contracts (Article 75 of the Euratom Treaty) and for contracts for the supply of small quantities of material (Article 74 of the Euratom Treaty and Commission Regulation No. 17/66), date of notification to the Agency and any useful references.
N.B. : Pursuant to Article 79 of the Treaty, those subject to safeguard requirements shall notify the authorities of the Member State concerned of any communication;
they make to the Commission pursuant to that Article.
This form, duly completed and signed, must be forwarded to the Commission of the European Communities , Euratom Safeguards Directorate , "Jean Hornet " building, Kirchberg, Luxembourg, (Grand Duchy of Luxembourg).
Date and place of dispatch :
Name and position of signatory
(l) Declaration of ore shipments/exports
Quantity contained in kg
of uranium
of thorium
(1) The declaration of shipments is to "be made at the latest at the end of January of each year for the previous year separately for each consignee. The declaration of export is to be made for each export at the date of shipment •
Name and address of the reporting undertaking.
Name of the mine in respect of which the declaration is made .
Code of the mine as notified to the undertaking by the Commission.
Pursuant to Article 79 of the Treaty, those subject to safeguards requirements shall notify the authorities of the Member State concerned
of any communications they make to the Commission pursuant to that Article .
This form, duly completed and signed, must be forwarded to the Commission of the European Communities , Euratom Safeguards Directorate , "Jean Uonnet " building, Kirchberg, Luxembourg, (Grand Duchy of Luxembourg).
(3) Category of material :
(3) Material bilance area
(6) Chemical composition :
(7) Enrichment or isotopical composition : (8) Physical form :
(9) Number of items :
(10) Location where material is now present :
(11)Reasons a)sensingcomponents ID) PU with Pu-238 > 80
c) non-nuclear activities (12) Intended use :
(14) Approximate date of transfer :
Date and place : •
Name and position of responsible signatory t
Exemption granted as above
(For the Commission)
Name, address and country of the installation requesting- the exemption.
Codeoftherequestingmaterialbalanceareanotified±0theinstallation in "the particular safeguards provisions#
Totalweightoftheelementsinkgfornaturalanddepleteduraniumand thorium, and in g for enriched uranium ana plutonium. Weight of fissile isotopes, if applicable.
Locationwithinthematerialbalanceareawherethenuclearmaterialis now stored.
Deletethereasonswhichdonotapply.
Indicationoftheusetowhichthenuclearmaterialrequestedforexemption is affected. . .
Indicationofparticular safeguards obligationtowhichthenuclearmaterial is subject, if applicable. Use the codification as laid down in Annex II (IT) of this Regulation.
Theapproximatedateoftransferoutofthematerialbalancearea(fox- sensing components) or transfer to non-nuclear use shall be given, if applicable .
(3) Material "balance area
(5) Category of materials :
(6) Chemical composition ï
(7) Enrichment or isotopical composition (8) Physical form :
(9) Humber of items :
(lO) Location where material is novr present : ......................... (il) Date of de-exemption :
(12) Exemption granted on :
(13) Intended use :
. Date and place t
Name and position of responsible signatory :
(1) Date on xtfhich the de–exemption is conrrunicated.
( 2) Uame , address and country of the installation communi eating the de- exemption .
(3) Code of the communieating material "balance area notified to the installatioi concerned in the particular safeguards provisions.
(4) Total weight of the elements in kg for natural and depleted uranium and thorium, and in g for enriched uranium and plutonium. Weight of the fissile isotopes , if applicable .
(5) Categories of materials as laid down in Annex II (11) of this Regulation. (6) Chemical composition shall "be identified. ;
(7) Degree of enrichment or isotopic composition, if applicable.
(8) Description of materials as laid dovm in Annex II (lO) of this Regulation. (9) The number of items constituting the materials.
(10) Location within the material "balance area where the nuclear material is now stored.
( 11 ) Date from which de–exemption shall "be applied .
(12) Date on which exemption from declarations in respect of the nuclear material in question had "been granted.
( 13 ) Indication of the use to which the nuclear material is affected .
Communications should , if possible , cover the succeeding two years .
In particular , communications should indicate :
- types of operations e.g, proposed campaigns with indication of type and quantity of fuel elements to "be fabricated or reprocessed, enrich ment programmes , reactor operating programmes , with planned shutdowns
– expected schedule of arrival of materials, stating the amount of
material per "batch, the form UO^,. new or irradiated fuels etc.) expected type of container of packaging;
dates by which quantity of material in products is expected to be determined and dates of dispatch;
«• dates and duration of physical inventory taking.
– thorium» s
K0I end dd el-d at a
af thorium
Nota' a laig6mmjeMèaL*fett sn^ftt'dtt'yattvfrktt
concerning the draft New Safeguards Regulation
Note to the Commission
The application of the Verification Agreement signed on 5 April 1973 "between
the Commission, the seven non-nuclear-weapon Member States! and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) calls for a New Euratom Safeguards Regulation^ to replace the existing Regulations 1 and 8 in force since 1959. This necessity
is a result of the fact that the IAEA safeguards system has a different structure from the Commission's and involves those subject to it in a number of obligations which it is impossible to fulfil on the basis of the former regulations.
The preparation of the Draft Regulations has encountered major difficulties, mainly because of the special situation of France, which has not signed the KPT and which, during the formulation by the Council of the brief for negotiating the Verification Agreement, asked to be able to exclude from the Euratom safeguards system all materials and installations not subject to a commitment
to peaceful use, this exclusion being coupled, however, with a declaration that Prance did not intend to derive "any industrial or economic benefit" from this
situation. (it is to be noted that the Commission had always expressed
reservations as to the terms of this "preamble" to the negotiating brief, considering them to be incompatible with the Treaty). This problem is dealt with in a separate document.
2. Problems of substance concerning the Draft New Regulation
By signing the Euratom Treaty, the Member States transferred to the Community the power to attach safeguards to nuclear materials on their behalf. Within the framework defined by the Treaty , therefore , responsibility for such safeguarding and the procedure for its application lies with the Commission.
Prance , a nuclear power , is not a party to the NPT. The United Kingdom , being a signatory of the NPT, was not required to conclude a Verification Agreement with the IAEA. Nevertheless , a Verification Agreement has been negotiated between the United Kingdom, the IAEA and the Community in order to enable the IAEA safeguards system to be applied , on a voluntary basis , to peaceful nuclear activities subject to such safeguarding. This Agreement has not yet entered into force .
2By "Euratom safeguards" is meant the entire body of rules providing for:
- communication to the Commission by operators in the Community of the technical characteristics of their nuclear installations ;
- maintenance by operators of records of operations affecting nuclear materials, and communication to the Commission of reports on the location and movement of materials:
- on-site verification of such data by inspectors recruited by the Commission.
In addition, the Euratom safeguards system does not consist solely in verification that nuclear materials have not been diverted to non-peaceful purposes "but also in supervision of uses in general.
By contrast, the IAEA system has as its sole purpose verification that materials have not been diverted to nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. Its application has necessarily been based on agreements negotiated with each State and on special procedures established for each installation , again by negotiation with the State concerned . Generally speaking , the IAEA system differs from the Euratom system in that access by IAEA inspectors to materials and installations is subject to limits laid down in the abovementioned Agreements .
Some delegations'" have endeavoured to demonstrate that certain obligations have
no legal basis in the Treaty and are proposing that such obligations be introduced
on a contractual basis into agreements applicable to installations, case by case. In particular, they make their approval conditional on the adoption of a regulation for Euratom inspections , which - at least in the case of one delegation (Prance) - should be fairly clearly designed to limit the present powers of the Commission.
Whereas the delegations of the member countries which have a strong nuclear industry generally show a distinct tendency towards a lessening of the obligations associated with safeguards and a curbing of the Commission's powers, the others have been just as firm about their interest in maintaining a strong Community system.
3. Present status of discussions on the Regulation proper
The Working Party on Atomic Questions has since November 1975 held five meetings , each lasting two to three days , on the Draft Regulation . Despite numerous amendments proposed for the various Articles, no agreement has yet been arrived
discussion. A report to Coreper is currently being finalized on 18 and 19 May for transmission to Coreper
The points still under
in order of their importance.
at on the points under prepared and should be before the end of May.
discussion are shown below - arranged, generally speaking,
Some delegations (France , Germany and - to a lesser extent - the United Kingdom)
doubt , as already indicated , whether the Regulation has an adequate legal basis . The proposal by the Commission Representative that Article 81 (which governs
the Commissions powers of inspection) be added to the citation has brought about no change in this attitude. In the opinion of the German Delegation, only some of the provisions of the Draft Regulation have their legal basis in
The German and French Delegations in particular
Article 79 of the Treaty. ThegOther provisions, on the other hand, necessitate invoking Article 203 » which means there mast he a unanimous
decision by the Council and consultation of the Assembly.
The Commission representatives have rejected this standpoint on legal and practical grounds.
- As regards the legal aspects, it must "be noted that the Regulation gives an internal effect to the Verification Agreement with the IAEA. This Agreement was negotiated and concluded by the Commission on the basis of a Council Directive based on Article 101 of the
Treaty, the first paragraph of which confers on the Community the right to undertake the conclusion of international agreements "within the limits of its powers". The Agreement was approved by the Council as being in compliance with the Directive.
The text of the Regulation does not transcend the letter and the
spirit of the Agreement, and the argument that the Regulation has no legal validity is without foundation.
– As regards the practical aspects, consultation of the Assembly as required by Article 203 would result in delays incompatible with the bringing into force of the Verification Agreement in accordance with the commitments entered into by the Community and the States concerned.
The Italian, Belgian, Dutch, Danish and Luxembourg Delegations have vigorously upheld the Commission's point of view.
3.1.2 Supervision of declared use
Verification that the use to which the materials have been put is in conformity with that declared by the user constitutes one of the Commission's main responsibilities in the field of safeguards. It represents one of the most obvious differences between the objectives of the Community safeguards system and the IAEA safeguards system, which is confined simply to verifying that the safeguarded materials have not been diverted to the manufacture of nuclear weapons.
The procedures applied hitherto under the Community safeguards system are thus not completely suitable for satisfactorily attaining the objectives of the Treaty.
Lengthy discussions have been devoted to this subject. An agreement satisfactory from the Commission 's point of view appears to be emerging
within the Working Party on Atomic Questions, on the basis of a compromise which has been approved by the delegations.
The Commission shall require that operating records be kept and produced in order to permit accounting for -ores, source materials and special fissile materials used or produced. The same requirement shall apply in the case of the transport of source materials and special fissile materials.
Those subject to such requirements shall notify the authorities of the Member State concerned of any communications they make to the Commission pursuant to Article 78 and to the first paragraph of this Article.
The nature and extent of the requirements referred to in the first paragraph of this Article shall be defined in a Regulation made by the Commission and approved by the Council
If action by the Community should prove necessary to attain one of the objectives of the Community and this Treaty has not provided the necessary
powers, the Council shall, acting unanimously on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the Assembly, take the appropriate measures.
However, details of "the implementation of this compromise have still to be worked out#
3.I.3 Definition of the special safeguarding procedures to "be applied individually in each installation *
These procedures are necessary to make it possible for "facility attachments", to be agreed between the Commission and the .Agency
in accordance with the provisions of the Verification Agreement, to be put into application in each installation*
These "facility attachments" involve in particular – and this is important – definition of the inspection activities of the IAEA and those of the Community so as to meet the requirements of the Agreement* They will be adopted after consultations between the Commission and
the management of the installation concerned and by agreement with
the Member State *
The procedures in question do not in principle concern safeguarding activities under the Treaty, which are exercised and implemented without any need for the agreement of a Member State*
The special safeguarding provisions laid down by the Regulation on
the basis of individual Commission decisions incorporate a great deal
(but do not bear any relation to either the IAEA or Community inspections) of the content of the "facility attachments". In consequence, the
Member States that are parties to the Agreement can exert considerable influence on the individual decisions by way of the approval they give
to the "facility attachments"*
Since Prance is not a party to the Agreement, and, there are consequently no "facility attachments" concerning its installations, its representatives have argued that this Member State is in an adverse position in relation
to the other Member States with regard to individual decisions*
On this point, which is considered highly important, the German Delegation has suggested a compromise solution* This would consist
in stating in the minutes of the Council proceedings that the Commission, when drawing up special safeguarding provisions for installations situated in France, will take account of the fact that the other States can exert an influence on the special provisions* This means that France will have an influence, equal to that exerted by the other States, on the special safeguarding provisions adopted by means of an individual Commission decision through its approval of the "facility attachments"*
The position adopted by the competent department of the Commission regarding this proposal is still reserved, and it can only be crystallized
when the Commission knows the exact wording of the text, which has still to be determined*
3*1*4 Safeguarding of ores
In order to meet certain delegations* requests for an easing of restrictions so as to render the present rules on this subject more flexible , the Commission proposed a timetable for declarations to be made by producers concerning the situation as regards ores – in which the frequency of such declarations would be far less than at present*
This proposal by the Commission has been accepted by all the delegations except the French, but it is not impossible that in a more advanced stage of the discussions France could agree to the Commission's text*
The Commission considered it necessary to introduce certain obligations for intermediaries in trade in nuclear materials, mainly in order to facilitate investigations should undue delays be observed in the delivery of the materials. The existence of a legal basis and the practical necessity for such an arrangement are disputed by certain Member States. In view of the fact that national laws on the subject of authorization for the processing of and trade in nuclear materials have been strengthened, the Commission might be disposed to make concessions in respect of intermediaries who do not physically hold nuclear materials.
The introduction of the new Regulation involves changing the inspection procedures as currently applied, which are based on the principle of considerable flexibility as to frequency, intensity and duration of inspections. Henceforth, in order to meet requirements arising from new technologies and from the ever-increasing quantities of materials and activities to be safeguarded, the new system will have to be more methodical.
This has led certain delegations to request that the Commission draw up and place before the Council a Regulation for inspections, including in particular details ofthefrequencyofsuchinspections. ThisRegulationshould,accordingtothe delegations, be based on Article 203 of the Euratom Treaty.
Therearevariousreasonsunderlyingthisproposal. Whilesomeconsiderthat such a regulation would provide a certain guarantee of uniform treatment for those subject to it, others palpably wish to use them to secure limitation of the Commission's powers with regard to inspection, in the same way as in the IAEA system, which, it must be pointed out, only attaches in principle "second-degree" safeguards after the national systems have attached theirs.
It is inadmissible that the Commission should submit a regulation governing its inspections to the Council for approval and restrict in a Regulation its inspectors* unlimited right of access as conferred by Article 81 of the Treaty. The Commission's representatives have stated to the Working Party on Atomic Questions that a document setting out the guidelines for procedures for performing Euratom inspections is being prepared and will be brought to the attention of the Member States.
While it seems both appropriate and desirable to give the Working Party information in this field, it is inconceivable that the relevant provisions shouldbediscussedwithinthisWorkingParty. Somedelegationshavesaidthat the solution of this problem will be a condition of their acceptance of the draft regulation under discussion, a condition which cannot be legally justified.
4*2 Obligations of the Member States as regards the IAEA inspectors1 activity
On a proposal from Germany, the Commission drew up a draft Council regulation
in which these obligations were specified. Discussion with representatives of the Member States which are parties to the Verification Agreement was interrupted on account of the German Delegation's desire to have the question of Euratom inspections(seeabove)settledfirstofall. Workontheproblemwill recommence in the near future, but must not delay the decision on the Regulation.
The list of points under discussion as shown above may give the false impression that a satisfactory solution is still a long way off. In point of fact, most of the strictly technical problems have "been solved and, from this particular point of view, an agreement on a text could "be arrived at very quickly.
On the other hand, divergencies of view persist in respect of problems of substance such as those concerning the legal basis for certain provisions of the draft Regulation and that for the "rules" for Euratom inspections, not to mention the problem of application of safeguards in France (dealt with, as already mentioned, in a separate document).
On the practical level, it is proposed that the attitude to be taken by the Commission on each of the discussion points that are still open as shown in this document should be as follows :
Legal problems (point 3.1.1 ): The point of view adopted by the Commission representatives in the Working Party on Atomic Questions, which tends to run
counter to the views of the German and French Delegations, must be maintained, since application of the procedure laid down in Article 203 is not acceptable on neither legal or practical grounds.
Safeguarding of declared use (point 3«1*2): A favourable opinion can be given with regard to the compromise solution that has emerged in the Working Party on Atomic Questions.
Safeguarding procedures to be applied to each installation (point 3»l*3)s The Commission could agree to the compromise proposal suggested by" the German Delegation, subject to knowing the exact wording of this compromise, which is to be included in the minutes of the Council proceedings.
This favourable opinion on the part of the Commission can be based on the consideration that application of Community safeguards in a nuclear-weapon State has two objectives: to verify non-diversion to military ends of nuclear materials imported under a clause of commitment to peaceful use, and to avoid, because of the special situation of this same State, the creation within the Community nuclear industry of situations that could lead to distortions of an economic and commercial nature .
The compromise proposed by the German Delegation seems to enable the Commission to attain the two objectives mentioned above with respect to France. ,
probable that, with regard to this question, there will be unanimity at the appropriate time on the proposal presented to the Working Party on Atomic Questions by the representatives of the Commission.
The Commission
is prepared to niche concessions ,
lines indicated
show that it
in this document .
should
the appropriate time , on the
Regulation of inspections ( point 4«1 ): The Commission should consider
as unacceptable a formal regulation disciplining the activity of its inspectors and limiting their freedom of action as laid down in Article 81 of the Euratom Treaty.
On the other hand , the Commission , when confirming the declarations already made by its representatives in the Working Party on Atomic Questions, should state its readiness to bring to the notice of the Member States, within
the shortest possible time, a document defining the guidelines for the procedures for performing Euratom inspections , representing as it were a
"code of conduct" to which the inspectors in question would normally refer .
Obligation of the Member States with respect to the activity of the IAEA inspectors (point 4»2): The Commission should declare itself ready to continue discussing this problem with the Member States with a view to drawing up a Community legal instrument if appropriate.
On the other hand, the Commission should not allow solution of these problems to delay a final Council Decision on the new draft regulation.
Solution of these problems has become a matter of considerable urgency, and any further delay would risk compromising the political credibility of the Community in an important field.
On this solution in particular depends the entry into force of the Verification Agreement, the time limit for which in law has already been greatly exceeded. Any further delay in its entry into force is liable seriously to damage relations between the Community and its traditional suppliers of nuclear materials. Ety- way of example, in the past few days contacts between the Commission^ Delegation at Ottawa and the Canadian authorities revealed that the latter were seriously considering interrupting the supply of nuclear materials to the Community in the event of Canadian materials in the Community not being made subject to Community safeguards with effect from 1 July and verified by the IAEA safeguards system, that is, the safeguards system laid down in the Verification Agreement.
In addition, it must be stressed that the effect of applying the new safeguarding measures made necessary by the entry into force of the new Regulation will call for a considerable increase in the Safeguards staff. The amount of time needed for the administration to achieve this increase in staff is an additional argument for stressing the necessity of adopting this Regulation rapidly.
Hence it is proposed that the attached communication be forwarded to the Council in the shortest possible time so that the points dealt with in this note which cannot be resolved by experts on the technical level can form
the subject of a discussion at an appropriate level within this Institution.
Subject : New Euratom Safeguards Regulation and entry into force of the Euratom/IAEA Verification Agreement
The Working Party on Atomic Questions (experts only) has completed its discussions on the draft text of the new Euratom safeguards
regulation which the Commission forwarded to the Council on 5 November 197^.
The conclusions reached by the Working Party are contained in a report which the Chairman of the Working Party will shortly forward to the Permanent Representatives Committee.
The Commission has noted that the Working Party has not reached agreement on certain points of major importance and that it has
consequently been obliged to refer these problems to Coreper again for the latter to find a solution to them.
Three full years have elapsed since the signature of the Verification Agreement on 5 April 1973* The delay which is building up is arousing
growing disquiet in the IAEA. The same preoccupation is manifest among the major nuclear Member States of the Community, who have several times informed the Commission of their fear that they will be obliged to stop their deliveries to the Community of the precarious legal conditions in which they have performed the e deliveries hitherto are not replaced as soon as ever possible by a system which is entirely
in conformity with the NPT.
Furthermore, the directives which will be applied by the "London Club" countries in respect of nuclear transfers lay down that suppliers must not transfer any nuclear item shown on the "basic list" unless they are covered by IAEA safeguards : thus the introduction of such a
clause presupposes that the Euratom/IAEA Agreement will enter into force forthwith. * *"
 It must, on the other hand, be emphasised that the fulfilment of the programmes for the development of nuclear energy, the objectives of which have been approved by the Council, is linked to the existence of a system of Community control which is both effective and believed-in by the public.
Finally, the need to ensure an effective application of control measures, made necessary by the existence of the new regulation, will demand an appreciable increase in Security Control's work force. From the day the regulation comes into force , considerable delays may be expected for administrative reasons , before such an increase can be effected.
For all these reasons, the Commission draws the Council's attention to the need to reach agreement on the new regulation as soon as possible and to take all appropriate steps for this purpose.
