In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
Article 6 - Principles and obligations concerning land-based pollution.
The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Ares .
In particular , the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollution by noxious sub­ stances and materials in accordance with Annex . II of the present Convention. To this end they shall, inter alia, as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines , standards or regulations concerning discharges , environmental quality and products containing such substances
ànd materials and their use .
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment
1 of the Baltic S^a Area in significant quantities without a prior
' special permit, which may be periodically reviewed, by the
"Article 6 - Principles and obligations concerning land-based pollution. 1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to
control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollution by noxieus sub­ stances and materials in accordance with Annex IX of the present Convention . To this end they shall , inter alia , as appropriate co-operatfe in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines , standards or regulations concerning discharges , environmental quality and products containing such substances
and mat criais and their use .
23• The substances and materials listed in Annex XI of the present Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment
of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit , which may be periodically reviewed , by the appropriate national authority ,"
Brussels, 24 February 1977
on the opening of negotiations for the accession of the European Economic Community to the Convention of 22 March 1974 on the Protection of the
Marine environment of the Baltic Sea area
(Communication from Mr. NATALI)
- This question is on the agenda for the 420th meeting of the Commission, on Wednesday 2nd March 1977*
To : Members of the Commission Mr CARPENTIER
: Environment and Consumer Protection Service
Associated services ï for agreement
D.C. for External Relations
for opinion Le^al Service
favourable opinion , with reservation of a further review of the text
The purpose of the attached draft Recommendation for a Decision is
to authorize the Commission to open negotiations with the non-Member countries which are Parties to the Helsinki Convention of 22 March 1974 on
the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area, with a view to enablinq the Community to accede to this Convention .
Title of the proposal
Drsft recommendation for a Council Decision on the opening of negotiations for the accession of the European Economic Community to the Convention
of 22 March 1974 on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the
Baltic Sea Area.
Decision by the Council April/May 1977
Comnuni cation from Mr Natali , Vice-President , to the Commission
Draft recommendation for a Council decision on the opening of negotiations for the accession of the European Economic Community to the Convention of 22 March 1974 on the Protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area
1 . By a Council decision , and upon a Commission proposal , the European Economic Community has become a Contracting Party to three international conventions on the prevention of pollution of fresh water and sea water;
they are the Paris Convention of 1974 for the prevention of land-based marine
pollution in the North-East Atlantic and the North Sea, the Barcelona Con­ vention of 1976 for the protection of the Mediterranean Sea (chiefly con­
cerning land-based pollution and pollution resulting from dumping), and the Bonn Convention of 1976 on the Protection of the Rhine from chemical-
2 . A similar Convention covering the Baltic Sea area , known as the Convention on the Protection of the Plarinc- Environment of the Baltic Sea
Area, has been negotiated and was signed in Helsinki on 22 March 1974 by the seven countries bordering the Baltic, including Denmark and the Federal Republic of Germany .
3. Taking as a guide the procedures followed in the negotiations for the conventions referred to in paragraph 1, and bearing in mind both certain Questions covered by the Helsinki Convention of 1974, and the Community's new powers in respect of those questions, I have decided to bring before
the Commission the communication to the Council annexed to this note,
whose aim is to obtain authority from the Council to open negotiations with the non-member countries bordering the Baltic Sea for the accession of the European Economic Community to the Convention of 22 March 1974 on the Protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area.
For the details of the Helsinki Convention and of the Community legislation which is the legal basis for accession to this Convention, the Commission is referred to paragraphs I and II of the explanatory memorandum,
which I propose be submitted to the Council.
4 . I would particularly draw the Commission 's attention to the following points :
a) The negotiations will involve five non-member countries, three of them, namely Poland, the German Democratic Republic and the USSR from the
Eastern bloc. The Commission has twice applied for observer status for
the Community on the Interim Commission which is the Convention's manage- < ment body. On both occasions the application was turned down and it is believed that those anainst Community participation were the countries
of the Eastern bloc .
b) Denmark and the Federal Republic of Germany have always been guided in their action by the desire to conform with Community commitments.
These two Member States have always supported the Community's application to participate in the work of the Interim Commission.
However, Denmark has now completed the parliamentary procedure for ratifying the Convention, and the Government that came into power through the
last elections will soon have to deal with the matter. Discussions on the connection between ratification by them and the Community's acceding to the Convention have therefore begun in both Denmark and the Federal Republic of Germany .
The problem was raised again recently (2 February 1977) at an in­ formal meeting in Hamburg. This was convened by the Federal German authorities, who invited representatives of Denmark and the Commission.
For reasons both of domestic politics (public opinion) and external policy (participation of East European countries in the Convention and the forthcoming meeting in Belgrade - June 1977 - whose purpose is to review
the implementation of the Final Act of the Helsinki Convention), both
Denmark and the Federal Republic of Germany would like to receive authorization to ratify the Convention on their own behalf and also, if it were possible,
on behalf of the Community. They feel that this would avoid the need to
conduct negotiations for the Community to accede, which would necessitate reopening the 1974 negotiations.
These are the arguments that will probably be expounded in the reply by the Governments cf Denmark and the Federal Republic of Germany to the Commission 's letter of 1 October 1976 ( 1 ).
The Commission cannot but be alive to the danger of such a precedent for any future negotiations on matters involving the partial or total
jurisdiction of the Community. I therefore feel that the Community cannot accede to this request .
It would in any case be difficult for the Commission to justify adopting two different positions on very similar matters.In the case of the Conventions of Paris (1974), Barcelona (1976) and Bonn (1976), the Commission proposed , and the Council approved , joint negotiation and signature by the Member States concerned and the Community, because of the different areas of jurisdiction involved.
For political and tactical reasons, therefore, it seercs to me to be in the Community's interest to begin negotiations before the 1977 Bel­ grade meeting.
5 . In the light of the foregoing considerations , and given that , to ensure , that the Treaties and their implementing instruments are conpi led with, it would be appropriate to make provision for the participation of
the European Economic Community in the Helsinki Convention of 1974, I suggest that the Commission :
- approve the annexed draft Recommendation to the Council on the opening of negotiations with the non-member countries bordering the Baltic Sea with a view to the accession of the European Economic Community to the Convention of 22 March 1974 on the Protection of.the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area ; and
- instruct the Secretariat-General to forward the adopted text to the Council.
authorizing the Commission to open negotiations with the non-Member states bordering the Baltic Sea to enable the European Economic Community to accede to the Helsinki Convention of 22 March 1974 on the protection of the marine
environment of the Baltic Sea area
( Commission Communication to the Council )
concerning the opening of negotiations with a view to the accession cf the European Economic Community to the Helsinki Convention cf 22 March 1974 on the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area
On 22 March 1974 , following a diplomatic conference held in Helsinki
at the invitation of the Government of Finland, the representatives of Denmark , Finland , the German Democratic Republic , the Federal Republic of Germany , the Polish Peonle 's Republic , Sweden anc! the Union cf Soviet Socialist Republics adopted a Convention on the protection of the marine environment in the Baltic Sea area (1). The text of this Convention is 1 appended to this Recommendation .
Under this Convention the Contracting Parties will individually or conjointly take all appropriate measures - legislative, administrative or
other - to prevent and reduce pollution and to protect and improve the marine environment in the Baltic Sea area.
In particular, Article 5 provides that the Contracting Parties undertake to adept measures to counteract the introduction into the Baltic Sea area of the dangerous substances Listed in Annex 1 to the Convention.
Article 6 stipulates that the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution.
Paragraph 2 of that Article states that the Contracting Parties
shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollution by the noxious substances and materials listed in Annex II to the Convention, and that to this end they shall inter alia cooperate in the development
and adoption of specific programmes , guidelines , standards or regulations concerning discharges, environmental quality and products containing such substances and materials and their use .
(1) The Convention is not yet in force : only Finland and Sweden tiave ratified it so far
Article 6, paragraphs 1 , 2 and 3, original version :
paragraph 3 of that Article stipulates that the substances and materials listed in Annex II to the Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area in significant quantities without prior special permit, which may be periodically reviewed by the appropriate national authority C1 ).
Other Articles cover the prevention of pollution from ships, the prevention of deliberate discharge of substances (dumping) and so on.
Article 22 provides for the possibility of a general review of the Convention at the request of the Contracting Parties or of the Commission set up to administer it .
Article 23, paragraph 1, provides for the possibility for each Contracting Party to propose amendments to the Articles of the Convention.
Article 25, paragraph 1, of the Convention stipulates that the provisions of the Convention may not be the subject of reservations.
"Article 6 - Principles and obligations concerning land-based pollution 1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to
control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area .
In particular , the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollution by noxious sub­ stances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention . To this end they shall , inter alia , as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines, standards or regulations concerning discharges, environmental quality and products containing such substances and materials and their use .
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior speci pernit, which may be periodically reviewed, by the appropriate national authority".
II . For its part , the European Communities' environmental action programme annexed to the statement of the Council and the Governments of
the Member States meeting in Council and approved on 22 November 1973, and the Resolution cf the Council and of the Governments of the Member States meeting in Council on the continuation and implementation of a European Community policy and action programme on the environment approved by the Council on 9 December 1976, provide for the implementation at Community
level of a number of measures to protect ■ fresh water and sea water against pollution .
Pursuant to the 1973 Programme, several directives for the improve­ ment of water quality have been adopter! by the Council : the Directive concerning the quality required of surface water intended for the abstraction of drinking water (1) and the Directive concerning the quality of bathing water (2). The Commission has sent to the Council, which is now studying them, two draft Directives on other quality objectives - water capable of supporting shellfish and water capable of suoporting freshwater fish (3).
On 4 May 1976, the Council adopted a Directive (4) on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharges into the aquatic environ­ ment of the Community. This Directive provides inter alia that the Community fix limit values for emissions and quality objectives for 3 number of dangerous substances, the list of which (given in an annex to the Directive) is very similar to that given in Annex II to the Helsinki Convention. .
Finally , by Decisions of : - 25 July 1975 (5)
the Council authorized the Community to sign and conclude the 1974 Paris
(5) 0J MO L 194, 25 July 1975
(7) Counci l Decision of 9 December 1976
Convention on the prevention of marine pollution of the north-east Atlantic land-based sources,the 1976 Barcelona Convention on the protection of
the Pleciiterranean and the 1976 Bonn Convention on the protection of the Rhine against chemical pollution,
III. As the Commission stated in its letter of 1 October 1976 to the Governments of C*enmar!< ^nd the Federal Republic of Germany, the decisions taken at Community level, referred to above,, to combat pollution of the aquatic environment of the Conmunity have conferred powers on the European Economic Community such that the Member States may not undertake commit­ ments with non-member countries which touch upon these powers under inter­ national Conventions relating to the control of pollution of a part of that environment. Since some of the measures provided for in these Con­ ventions henceforth fall within the ambit of competence of the Community, it is accordingly for the Community to contract the corresponding commit­ ments by becoming a Party to the Conventions.
In its letter of 1 October 1976, the Commission therefore asked the Governments of the two Member States concerned not to initiate the
procedure for ratifying that Convention until the Community had become a Party thereto.
It is in response to this legal situation that the Commission re­ commends that the Council authorize it to open negotiations with a view
to enabling the European Economic Community to become a Contracting Party to the Helsinki Convention .
Until these negotiations have been concluded, the Member States
which have signed this longer hold the powers with non-Member States
Convention should not ratify it, since they no necessary to undertake commitments on their own
in the areas covered by the Convention.
the Commission recommends that the Council :
a) adopt the appended Decision concerning the opening of negotiations for the accession by the European Economic Community to the Convention on the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area;
asks ttie Commission tc inform the Governments cf Finland , the Gorman Democratic Republic, the Polish People's Republic, Sweden and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of the decision referred to in ooint (a).
authorizing the Coranission to open negotiations with the non-Member States bordering the Baltic Sen with a view to the secession of the European Economic Community to the Helsinki Convention of 22 fiarch 1974 on the protection cf the marine onviron^cnt of the Celtic Sea area
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, Having regard to the rcconmendat icn by the Commission ,
Whereas the statement of the Council of the European Communities and of the representatives of the Governments of the Member States of 22 Movem- : ber 1973, regarding the programme of action of the Furopoan Communities
on the environment ( 1 ), emphasizes the importance for the Communities of the control of water pollution nnc! provides for measures to this end;
Havinn regard to the Council Resolution of 9 December 1976 on the continuati and i r>p I orientation of a European Community policy and action programme
on the environment;
Whereas , pursuant , to the proqramne oresentc-d , the Community has already
adopted ment of
or is preparing . to adopt directives to protect the aquatic environ­ the Community ;
in particular the Council Directive of 4 nay 1976 (2) on pollution
whereas
caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environ­ ment of the Community provides that measures will be taken both by the Community and by the f'ienber States to reduce water pollution and parti­ cularly pollution of inland surface waters and sea water; •
Whereas the purpose cf the Convention of 22 March 1974 on the protection of the marine environment of the Daltic Sea area is to protect the marine environment of the Baltic against the principal sources of
marine pollution and particularly those of lancl-based origin and those resulting from the discharge of dangerous substances;
whereas the Hember States bordering th(. Baltic Sea may not, owing to the powers conferred upon the Community in the matter of the control of pol­
lution of the aquatic environment, alone undertake commitments with non-Member States in all the fields covered by the Helsinki Convention of 22 March 1974;
Whereas , accordingly , the European Economic Community ought to become a Party to this Convention alongside its Member States;
The Commission is hereby authorized to open negotiations with the non- Member States Party to the Convention of 22 March 1974 for the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area with a view to the
accession of the Community to that Convention.
The Commission shall conduct these negotiations in consultation with the representatives of the Member States in accordance with the direc­ tives annexed to this Decision .
Done at Brussels , For the Council The President '
 Directives for the négociations
The Convention of 22 March 1974 on the protection of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea area should be amended in such a way as to permit the European Economic Community to accede to it.
Article 6 - Principles end obligations concerning land-based pollution. 1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to
control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area .
2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollution by noxious substances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention. To this end they shall, inter alia, as appropriate co-operate in
the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines, standards or regulations concerning discharges, environmental quality and products containing such substances and materials and their use.
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Con­ vention shall not be introduced into the marine environment of the
Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit, which may be periodically reviewed, by the appropriate national authority".
on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area
CONSCIOUS of the indispensable economic, social and cultural values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area and its living resources for the peoples of the Contracting Parties; _ »
BEARING in mind the exceptional hydrographic and ecological characteristics of the Baltic Sea Area and the sensitivity of its living resources to changes in the environment;
NOTING the rapid development of human activities at the Baltic Sea Area, the considerable population living within its catchment area and -the highly urbanized and industrialized state of the Contracting Parties as well as'
their intensive agriculture and
NOTING with deep concern the increasing pollution of the Baltic Sea Area, originating from mapy sources such as discharges through rivers, estuaries, outfalls and pipelines, dumping and normal operations of vessels as well as through airborne pollutants;
CONSCIOUS . of the responsibility of the Contracting Parties to protect and enhance the values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area for the benefit of
their people?;
RECOGNIZING that the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of "the Baltic Sea Area are
tasks that cannot effectively be accomplished by national efforts only but that also close regional co-operation and other appropriate international measures aiming at fulfil­ ling these tasks are urgently needed ;
NOTING that' the relevant recent international con­
ventions even after having entered into force for the
requirements to protect and enhance the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area ;
NOTING the importance of scientific and technologi­ cal co-operation in the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, particu­ larly between the Contracting Parties;
DESIRING to develop further regional co-operation in the Baltic Sea Area? the possibilities and requirements of which were confirmed by the signing of the Conven­ tion on Fishing and Conservation of the Living Resources in the Baltic Sea and the Belts, Gdansk 1973;
CONSCIOUS of llie importance of regional intergov­ ernmental co-operation in the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area as an integral part of the peaceful co-operation and mutual understanding be­ tween all European States;
For the purposes of the present Convention "the Baltic Sea Area" shall be the Baltic Sea proper with the Gulf of Bothnia, the Gulf of Finland and the entrance to the Baltic Sea bounded by the parallel of the Skaw in the Skagerrak at 57 ° 44' 8" N. It does not include internal waters of the Contracting Parties.
For the purposes of the present Convention:
1. "Pollution" means introduction by man, directly or • indirectly, of . substances or energy into the marine environment, including estuaries, resulting in such deleterious effects as hazard to human health, harm to living resources and marine life, hindrance to legiti- • mate uses of the sea including fishing, impairment of the quality for use of sea water, and reduction of
2. "Land-based pollution" means pollution of the sea 2. Der Ausdruck .Verschmutzung" vom Land aus" be­
caused by discharges from land reaching the -sea waterborne, airborne or directly from the cdast, in­ cluding outfalls from pipelines;
(i) any deliberate disposal at sea of wastes or
other matter from vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;
(ii) any deliberate disposal at sea of vessels, air­ craft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;
"Dumping" does not include:
(i) the disposal at sea of wastes or other matter
incidental to, or derived from the normal opera­ tions of vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea and their equip­ ment, other than wastes or other matter trans­ ported by or to vessels, aircraft, platforms or
■ other man-made structures at sea, operating for the purpose of disposal of such matter or de­ rived from the treatment of such wastes or
other matter on such vessels, aircraft, platforms or structures;
(ii) placement of matter for a purpose- other than the mere disposal thereof, provided that such
 placement is not contrary to the aims of the
4. "Vessels and aircraft* means waterborne or airborne
craft of any type whatsoever. This expression includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating cTaft whether self-propelled or not, and fixed or floating platforms; '
5. "Oil* means petroleum in any form including crude oil, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products;
6. "Harmful substance" means any hazardous, noxious, or other substance, which, if introduced into the sea, is liable to cause pollution ;
7. "Incident*, means an event involving the actual or probable discharge into the sea of harmful substance, or effluents containing such a substance.
Article 3 * Fundamental principies and obugations , -
1. The Contracting Parties shall individually or jointly take all appropriate legislative, administrative or other relevant measures in order to prevent and abate pollu­ tion and to protect and enhance the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
(2) Die Vertragsparteien sorgen nach besten Kräften ours to ensure that the implementation of the present dafür, daß die Durchführung dieses Ubereinkommens
2. The Contracting Parties shall use their best endeav­ Convention shall not cause an increase in the pollution
However, each Contracting Party shall ensure, by the Jedoch stellt jede Vertragspartei durch geeignete, den
of sea areas outside the Baltic Sea Area.
1. The present Convention shall apply to the protec­ tion of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, which comprises the water-body and the sea-bed includ­ ing their living resources and other forms of marine life.
2. Without prejudice to the sovereign rights in regard to their territorial sea, each Contracting Party shall im­ plement the provisions of the present Convention within its territorial sea through its national authorities.
3-. While the provisions of the present Convention do not apply to internal waters, which are under the sover­
to ensure that the purposes of the present Convention will be obtained in these waters.
4. The present Convention shall not apply to any
adoption of appropriate measures not impairing the oper­ ations or operational capabilities of such ships and air­ craft owned or operated by it, that such ships and air­ craft act in a manner consistent, so far as is reasonable and practicable, with the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties undertake to counteract the
introduction, whether airborne, waterborne or otherwise, ,
into the Baltic Sea Area of hazardous substances as Ostseegebiet entgegenzuwirken, gleichviel ob sie auf specified in Annex I of the present Convention.
Principles and obligations concerning . land-based pollution
1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area,
2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollu­ tion by noxious substances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention. To this end they shall, inter alia, as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines, standards or regulations concerning dis­ charges, environmental quality, and products containing such substances and materials and their use.
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of
the present Convention shall not be. introduced Into the
marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant
quantities without a prior special permit, which may be
periodically reviewed, by the appropriate national au­
4. The appropriate national authority will inform the Commission referred to in Article 12 of the present Con­ vention of the quantity, quality and way of discharge if it considers that significant quantities of substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention were discharged.
5. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to establish and adopt common criteria for issuing permits for dis­ charges. «
6. To control and minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea' Area by harmful substances the Contracting Parties shall, in addition to the provisions of Article 5 of the present Convention, aim at attaining the goals and applying the criteria enumerated in Annex III of the present Conven­ tion.
7. I; the discharge from a watercourse, flowing through the territories of two or more Contracting Parties or forming a boundary between them, is liable to cause pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, the Contracting Parties concerned shall in com­ mon take appropriate measures in order to prevent and abate such pollution.
8. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to use best practicable means in order to minimize the airborne pol­ lution of the Baltic Sea Area by noxious substances.
Prevention of pollution from ships
1. In order to protect the Baltic Sea Area from pollu­ tion by deliberate, negligent or accidental release of oil, harmful substances other than oil, and by the discharge of sewage and garbage from ships, the Contracting Par­ ties shall take measures as set out in Annex IV of the present Convention.
2. The Contracting Parties shall develop and apply uniform requirements for the capacity and location of facilities for the reception of residues of oil, harmful- substances other Ihtfn oil, including sewage and garbage, taking into account inter alia the special needs of pas­ senger ships and combination carriers. *
 Article 8 Pleasure craft
The Contracting Parties shall, in addition to imple­
asure craft activities. The measures shall inter alia deal with adequate reception facilities for wastes from ple­ asure craft.
Article 9 Prévention of dumping
1. The Contracting Parties shall, subject to Paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article, prohibit dumping in the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Dumping of dredged spoils shall be subject to a prior special permit by the appropriate national authority in accordance with the provisions of Annex V- of the pres­ ent Convention. :
3. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure com­ pliance with the provisions of this Article by vessels and aircraft:
a) registered in its territory or flying its flag;
b) loading, within its territory or territorial sea, matter which is to be dumped; or
c) believed to be engaged in dumping within its ter­ ritorial sea.
4. The provisions of this Article shall not apply when the safety of human life or of a vessel or aircraft at sea is threatened by the complete destruction or total loss of the vessel or aircraft, or . in any case which constitutes a danger to human life, if dumping appears to be the only way of averting the threat and if there is every probabil­ ity that the damage consequent upon such dumping will be less than would otherwise occur. Such dumping shall be so conducted as to minimize the likelihood of damage to human or marine life.
3. Dumping made under the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Article shall be reported and dealt with in ac­ cordance with Annex VI of the present Convention and shall also be reported forthwith to the Commission refer­ red to in Article 12 of the present Convention in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Regulation 4 of Annex V of the present Convention.
6. In case of dumping suspected to be in contravention of the provisions of this Article the Contracting Parties shall co-operate in investigating the matter in accordance with Regulation 2 of Annex IV of the present Conven­ tion.
Exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and its subsoil
Each Contracting Party shall take all appropriate meas­ ures in order to prevent pollution of the marine en­ vironment of the Baltic Sea Area resulting from explora­ tion or exploitation of its part of the sea-bed and its subsoil or from any associated activities thereon. It shall also ensure that'adequate equipment is at hand to start an immediate abatement of pollution in that area.
Co-opcralion in comballing marine polIuHon
The Contracting Parties shall take measures and co-
tion in order to eliminate or minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea Area by oil or other harmful substances.
Institutional and organizational framework
1. The Baltic Marine Environment Protection Com- mission, hereinafter referred to as "the Commission", is hereby established for the purposes of the present Con- vention .
2. The chairmanship of the Commission shall be given tor eech Contracting Party in turn in alphabetical order of the names of the States in the English language.
The Chairman shall serve for a period of two years, and
representative of his country.
Should the chairmanship fall vacant, the Contracting
Party chairing the Commission shall nominate a suc-
v cessor to remain in office until the term of chairmanship of that Contracting Party expires.
- 3. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at least once a year upon convocation by the Chairman. Upon the request of a Contracting Party, provided it is en- dorsed by another Contracting Party, the Chdfrman shall, as soon as possible, summon an extraordinary meeting at such time and place as the Chairman deffermines, how- ever, not later than ninely days from the date of the sutr- mission of the request.
4. The first meeting of the Commission shall- be
called by the Depositary Government and shall take Verwahrregierung einberufen und findet innerhalb von
place within a period of ninety days from the date fol- lowing the entry into force of the present Convention.
5. Each Contracting Party shall have one vote in the Commission. Unless otherwise provided under the pres- ent Convention, the Commission shall take its decisions unanimously.
. The duties oi the Commission '•
The duties of the Commission shall be-:
a) To keep the implementation of the present Conven­ tion under continuous observation;
b) To make 'recommendations on measures relating to the purposes of the present Convention;
c) To keep under review the contents of the present Convention including its Annexes and to recommend to the Contracting Parties such amendments to the present Convention including its Annexes as may be required including changes in the lists of substances and materials as well as the adoption of new An­ nexes ;
d) To define pollution control criteria, objectives for the reduction of pollution, and objectives concerning meas­ ures, particularly according to Annex III of the pres­ ent Convention ;
and for this purpose: -
 (i) to receive, process, summarize and disseminate from available sources relevant scientific, tech­
nological and statistical information; and
(ii) to promote scientific and technological research;
f) To seek, when appropriate, the services of competent regional and other international organizations to col­ laborate in scientific and technological research as well as other relevant activities pertinent to the ob­ jectives of the present Convention;
g) To assume such other functions as may be appro­ priate under the terms of the present Convention.
Administrative provisions for the Commission
1. The working language of the Commission shall be English.
2. The Commission shall adopt its Rules of Procedure.
3. The office of the Commission, hereafter referred to as the "Secretariat", shall be in Helsinki.
4..The Commission shall appoint an Executive Secre­ tary and make provisions for the appointment of such other personnel as may be necessary, and determine the duties, terms and conditions of the Executive Secretary.
5. The Executive Secretary shall be the chief adminis­ trative official of the Commission and shall perform the functions that are necessary for the administration of the present Convention, the work of the Commission and other tasks entrusted to the Executive Secretary by the Commission and its Rules of Procedure.
Financial provisions for the Commission
1. The Commission shall adopt its Financial Rules.
2. The Commission shall adopt an annual or biennial budget of proposed expenditures and budget estimates for the fiscal period following thereafter.
3. The total amount of the budget, including any sup­ plementary budget adopted by the Commission, shall be contributed by the Contracting Parties in equal parts, unless the Commission unanimously decides otherwise .
4. Each Contracting Party shall pay the expenses related to the participation in the Commission of its rep­ resentatives, experts and advisers.
Scleiitific and technological co-operation
1. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other interna­ tional organizations , to co-operale in the fields of science , technology and other research, and to exchange data as well as other scientific information for the purposes of the present Convention.
2. Without prejudice to Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Ar­ ticle 4 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties undertake directly, "or when appropriate through com­ petent regional or other international organizations, to promote studies , untcrtake , support or contribute to prog­ rammes aimed at developing -ways and means for the
1. In case of a dispute between Contracting Parties
as to the interpretation or application of the present Con­
vention, they should seek a solution by negotiation. If the
Parties concerned cannot reach agreement they should handlungsweg anstreben. Können die betreffenden Par­ seek the good offices of or jointly request the mediation
• assessment of the nature and extent of pollution, path­ ways, exposures, risks and remedies in the Balt-ic Sea Area, and particularly to develop alternative methods of treatment, disposal and elimination of such matter and substances that arc likely to cause pollution of the ma­ rine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
3. Tho Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other inter­ national organizations, and, on the basis of the informa­ tion and data acquired pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, to co-operate in developing inter-com- parable observation methods , in performing baseline studios and in establishing complementary or joint prog­ rammes for monitoring.
4. The organization and scope of work connected with the implementation of tasks referred to in the preceding Paragraphs should primarily be outlined by,the Com­ mission. ■ "
Article. 17 Responsibility for damage
The Contracting Parties undertake, as soon as pos­ sible, jointly to develop and accept rules concerning responsibility for damage resulting from acts or omis­ sions in contravention of the present Convention, includ­ ing , inter alia , limits of responsibility, criteria and proce­ dures for the determination of liability and available remedies.
Article 18 * Settlement of disputes
2. If the Parties concerned have not been able to re­
Article 19 Safeguard of certain freedoms
Nothing in the present Convention shall be construed as infringing upon the freedom of navigation, fishing, marine scientific research and other legitimate uses of the high, seas, as well as upon the right of innocent pas­ sage through the territorial sea.
Article 20 Status of Annexes
The Annexes attached to the present Convention form an integral part of the Convention.
Relation to other Conventions
The provisions of the present Convention shall be ws'hont prejudice to the rights and obligations of the
 Contracting Parties under treaties concluded previously
as well as under treaties which may be concluded in the .-.'uture, furthering and developing the general principles of the Law of the Sea that the present Convention is based upon and in.particular provisions concerning the
prevention of pollution of the marine environment.
- Revision of the Convention
A conference for the purpose of a general revision of ■ the present Convention may be convened with the con­ sent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission..
Amendments to the Articles of the Convention
1. Each Contracting Party may propose amendments to the Articles of the present Convention. Any such pro­ posed amendment shall be submitted to the Depositary Government and communicated by it to all Contracting Parties, which shall inform the Depositary Government of either their acceptance or rejection of the amendment as soon as possible after the receipt of the communica­ tion. "
The amendment shall enter into force ninety days after the Depositary Government has received notifications of acceptance of that amendment from all Contracting Par­ ties.
' 2. With the consent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission a conference may be con­ vened for the purpose of amending the present Conven­ tion.
Amendments to the Annexes and the adoption of Annexes
1. Any amendment to the Annexes proposed by a Con­ tracting Party shall be communicated to the other Con­ tracting Parties by the Depositary Government and con­ sidered in the Commission. If adopted by the Commis­ sion, the amendment shall be communicated to the Con­ tracting Parties and recommended for acceptance.
2. Such amendment shall be deemed to have been ac­ cepted at the end of a period determined by the Com­ mission unless within that period anyone of the Con­ tracting Parties has objected to the amendment. The ac­ cepted amendment shall enter into force on a date deter­ mined by the Commission.
The period determined by the Commission shall be pro­ longed for an additional period of six months and the date of entry into force of the amendment postponed accordingly, if, in exceptional cases, any Contracting Party before the expiring of the period determined by the Commission informs , the Depositary Government, that , although it intends to accept the proposal , the con­ stitutional requirements for such an acceptance are not yet fulfilled in its State.
3. An Annex to the present Convention may be adopted in accordance with the provisions of this Ar­ ticle .
4. The Depositary Government shall inform all Con­ tracting Parties of any amendments or the adoption of a new Annex which enter into force under this Article and of the dale on which such amendment or new An­ nex enters into forcfi.
5. Any objection under this Article shall be made by •notification in writing to the Depositary Government
 which shall notify all Contracting Parties and the Ex­ ecutive Secietary of any such notification and the data of its receipt.
1. The provisions of the present Convention shall not be subject to reservations.
2. The provision of ParagrapH 1 of this Article does not prevent a Contracting Party from suspending for a period not exceeding one year the application of an Annex of the present Convention or part thereof or an amendment thereto after the Annex in question or the amendment thereto has entered into force.
3. If after the entry into force of the present Conven­ tion a Contracting Parly invokes the provisions of Para­ graph 2 of this Article it shall inform the other Contract­ ing Parties, at the time of the adoption by the Commis­ sion of an amendment to an Annex-or a new Annex, of those provisions which will be suspended in accordance with Paragraph 2 of this Article. -
Signature, ratificano», approvai, and accession
1. The present Convention shall be open for signature in Helsinki on 22 March 1974 by the Baltic Sea States participating in the Diplomatic Conference on the Protec­ tion of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, held in Helsinki from 18 to 22 March 1974. The present Convention shall be open for accession to any other State interested in fulfilling the aims and purposes of the present Convention, provided that this Staje is invited by all the Contracting Parties. ,
2. The present Convention shall be subject to ratifica­ tion or approval by the States which have signed it.
3. The instruments of ratification, approval, or acces­
sion shall be deposited with the Government of Finland,
which will perform the duties of the Depositary Govern­
Entry into force
The present Convention shall enter into force two
months af let the deposit of the 4 seventh ratification or approval.
Article 28 Withdrawal
instrument of
1. At any tim^. after the expiry of five years from the
date of entry into force of the present Convention any
Contracting Party may, by giving written notification to
the Depositary Government, withdraw from the present jederzeit von dem Ubereinkommen zurücktreten. Der Convention. The withdrawal shall take effect for such
Contracting Party on the thirty-first day of December of
the year which follows the year in which the Depositary
Government was notified of the withdrawal.
2. In case of notification of withdrawal by a Contract­ considering the effect of the withdrawal.
The present Convention has been drawn up in a single copy ia the English language. Official translations into
ish languages shall be prepared and deposited with the signed original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipoten­
tiaries, being duly authorised thereto, have signed the zu gehörig befugten Bevollmächtigten dieses Uberein­
DONE AT HELSINKI, this twenty-second day of March' . GESCHEHEN ZU HELSINKI am 22. März 1974 one thousand nine hundred and seventy-four.
 its derivatives DDE and DDD.
2. PCB's (polyehlorinated biphenyls).
The protection of the Baltic Sea Area from pollution
by the substances listed below can involve the use of
appropriate technical means, prohibitions and regulations geeignete technische Maßnahmen, durch Verbote und of the transport, trade, handling, application, and final Vorschriften über Beförderung, Handel, Handhabung, An­
Noxious Substances and Materials
The following substances and materials are listed for the purposes of Article 6 of the present Convention.
The list ist valid for substances and materials intro­
duced as waterborne into the marine environment. The
2. Antimony, arsenic, beryllium, chromium, copper, lead, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, tin, vanadium, zinc, and their compounds, as well as elemental phos­ phorus.
3. Phenols and their derivatives.
4. Phthalic acid and its derivatives.
7. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and their deriva­
8. Persistent toxic organosilicic compounds.
9. Persistent pesticides, including organophosphoric and organostannic pesticides, herbicides, slimicides and chemicals used for the preservation of wood, timber, wood pulp, cellulose, paper, hides and 'textiles, hot covered by the provisions of Annex I of the present" Convention.
11. Acids, alkalis and surface active agents in high concentrations or big quantities.
12. Oil and wastes of petrochemical and other industries containing lipid-soluble substances.
13. Substances having adverse effects an the taste and/ or smell of products for .human consumption from the sea, or effects on taste, smell, colour, transparency or other characteristics of the water seriously reduc­ ing its amenity values.
14. Materials and substances which may float, remain in suspension 'or sink, aud which may seriously inter­ fere with any legitimate use of the sea.
15. Lignin substances contained in industrial waste wat­ ers.
1G. The chelators EDTA (ethylenedinitrilotetraacetic acid or ethylenediamineletvaacetic acid) and DTPA (die­ thylenetriaminopentaacetic acid).
practicable means to prevent harmful substances and materials from being introduced as airborne into the Baltic Sea Area.
1. Mercury, cadmium, and their compounds.
 Goals, Criteria and Measures concerning the Prevention of Land-Based Pollution
In accordance with the provisions of Article 6 oi the present Convention the Contracting Parlies shall endeav­ our to attain the goals and apply the criteria . and measures enumerated in this Annex in order to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic: Sea Area. .
1. Municipal sewage shall be treated in an appropriate way so that the amount of organic matter does not cause harmful changes in the oxygen content of the Baltic Sea Area and the amount of nutrients does not cause harmful eutrophication of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Municipal sewage shall also be treated in an ap­ propriate. way to ensure-that the hygienic quality, and in particular epidemiological and toxicological,safety, of the receiving sea area is maintained at a level which does not cause harm to human health, and in a way that under the given composition of the sewage no significant amount of such harmful substances as are listed in An­ nexes I and II of the present Convention is formed.
3. The polluting load of industrial wastes shall be minimized in an appropriate way in order to reduce the amount of harmful substances, organic matter and nutrients.
5. The discharge of cooling water from nuclear power plants or other kinds of industries using large amounts of water shall be effected in a way which minimizes the pollution of the marine environment Of the Baltic Sea Area.
6. The Commission will define pollution control criteria, objectives for reduction of pollution and objectives con­ cerning measures, including processing techniques and
4. The means referred to in Paragraph 3 of this Annex
shall in particular include minimization of production
and improvement of qualifications for water treatment.
In the treatment of waste water mechanical, chemidal,
biological and other measures, according to the quality
of the waste water, and as required to maintain or im­
prove the quality of the recipient water, shall be applied.
 Prevention of Pollution from Ships Regulation 1
The Contracting Parties shall as appropriate co-operate and assist each other in initiating action by the Inter- Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization to develop :
a) international rules for navigation of deep draught ships in narrow and shallow waters in international waters of the Baltic Sea Area and in the entrances
to the Baltic Sea for the prevention of collisions, strandings and groundings ;
b) an international radio reporting system for large ships en route within the Baltic Sea Area as well as for
/ships carrying a significant amount of a harmful substance .
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, as appropriate assist each other in investigating viola­ tions of the existing legislation on antipollution meas­ ures, which have occurred or are suspected to have occurred within the Baltic Sea Area. This assistance may include but is not limited to inspection by the competent authorities of oil record books, cargo record books, log books and engine log books and taking oil samples for analytical identification purposes and in respect of the system of tagging oil residues.
For the purposes of this Annex :
1. "Ship" means a vessel of any type whatsoever operat­ ing in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag ot.any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal State concerned.
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances , means any release howsoever caused from a ship and includes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pumping, emitting or emptying ;
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping'of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 20 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , - exploitation and asso-
 cuited off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral resources! or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
4. "Nearest land ". The term "from the nearest land "
means from the baseline from which the territorial sea
of the territory in question is established in accord­ ance with international law.
5. The term "jurisdiction" shall be interpreted in accord­ ance with international law in force at the time of application or interpretation of this Annex.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1 January 1977 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on methods /or the prevention of pollution by oil -from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
" Oil " means petroleum in any form
oil , . fuel oil , sludge , oil refuse and
(other than petrochemicals which are subject to the provisions of Regulation 5 of this Annex) and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing* includes the substances listed in Appendix I to this An'nex. ""
"Oily mixture* means a mixture with any oil content.
"Oil fuel" means any oil used as fuel in connection with the propulsion and auxiliary machinery of the ship in which such oil is carried.
" Oil tanker " means a ship constructed or adapted primarily to carry oil in bulk in its cargo spaces and includes combination carriers and .any " chemical tanker" as defined in Regulation 5 of this Annex when it is carrying a cargo or part cargo of oil in bulk.
Combination carrier" means a ship designed to carry either oil or solid cargoes in bulk.
including refined products
6. "Clean ballast" means the ballast in a tank which 6. Der Ausdruck .sauberer Ballast" bezeichnet den
since oil Was last carried therein has been so cleaned that effluent therefrom if it were discharged from a
ship which is stationary into clean calm water on a clear day would not produce visible traces of oil on the surface of the water or on adjoining shore lines or cause a sludge or emulsion , to be deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining shore lines. If the ballast is discharged through an oil dischaige monitoring and control system approved by the Administration, evidence based on such a system to the effect that the oil content of the effluent did not exceed 15 parts per million shall be determinative that the bnllifct was clean, notwithstanding the presence of visible traces.
 7. "Segregated ballast" means the ballast water intro­ 7. Der Ausdruck .getrennter Ballast" bezeichnet das
duced into a tank which is completely separated from the, cargo oil and oil fuel system and which is permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious substances as variously defined in the Regula­ tions of this Annex.
B Control of Discharge of Oil
1. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures from any oil tanker and any ship of 400 tons gross tonnage and above other than an oil tanker shall be prohibited, while in the Baltic Sea Area;
b) such ships while in the Baltic Sea Area shall retain on board all oil drainage and sludge, dirty ballast and tank washing waters and discharge them only to reception facilities.
2. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oiL* or oily mixtures from a ship of less than 400 tons gross tonnage, other than an oil tanker, shall be prohibited while in the Baltic Sea Area, except when the oil content of the effluent without dilution does not exceed 15 parts per million or alternatively when all of the following condi­ tions are satisfied :
(i) the ship is proceeding en route ;
(ii) the oil content of the effluent is less than 100 parts
per million ; and
(iii) the discharge is made as far as practicable from the land, but in no case less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land ; *
b) no discharge into the sea shall contain chemicals or other substances in quantities or concentrations which are hazardous to the marine environment or chemicals
or other substances introduced for the purpose of circum­
c) the oil residues which cannot be discharged into the sea in compliance with Sub-Paragraph 2 a) of this Paragraph shall be retained on board or discharged to reception facilities.
3. The provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to the discharge of clean or segregated ballast.
4. Whenever visible traces of oil are otvserved-on or
below the surface of the water in the immediate vicinity
of a ship or its wake, the Contracting Parties should, to
the extent they are reasonably able to do so, promptly parteien, soweit dies zumutbar und möglich isl, um­ investigate the facts bearing on the issue of whether gehend die mit der Frage, ob ein Verstoß gegen diese
there has been< a. violation of the provisions of this Regulation. The investigation should include, in particu­ lar, the wind and sea conditions, the track and speed of the ship, other possible sources of the visible traces in the vicinity, and any relevant oil discharge records.
Paragraph B of this Regulation shall not apply to :
a) the discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or
resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment!:
provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted ■either \vi!l\ intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or
c) the discharge into the-sea of substances containing oil , approved by the Administration , when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution in­ cidents in order lo minimize the damage from pollu­ tion. Any such discharge shall be subject to the approval of any Contracting Party in whose jurisdic­ tion it is contemplated the discharge will occur.
R Special Requirements for Drilling Rigs and other Platfoj-ms
Fixed and floating drilling rigs when engaged in the exploration , exploitation and associated offshore process­ ing of sea-bed mineral resources and other platforms shall 'comply with the requirements of this Regulation applicable to ships of 400 tons gross tonnage and above Other than oil tankers, except that:
9) they shall keep a record of all operations involving oil or oily mixture discharges, in a form approved by the Administration ; and
b) subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, the discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures shall be prohibited except 'when the oil content of the discharge without dilution docs not exceed 15 parts per million.
E Reception Facilities of the Baltic Sea Area
The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure that not later than 1 January 1977 all oil loading terminals and repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area are provided with facilities adequate for the reception and treatment of all the dirty ballast and tank washing waters from . oil tankers. In addition all ports, of the area shall be provided with adequate reception facilities for other residues and oily mixtures from all ships. Such facilities shall have adequate capacity to meet the needs of the ships using them without causing undue delay.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible, but
not later than 1 January 1977 or at a date not later
than one year after the date of the entry into force of
the present Convention, whichever occurs later, decide
upon a date from which the provisions of Paragraphs A
to D of this Regulation on the discharge of noxious ger Stoffe als Massengut aus Schiffen, die im Ostsee­
liquid substances in bulk from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area shall apply.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
adapted primarily to calry a cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk and includes an "oil tanker* as
 defined in Regulation 4 of this Annex when carrying a cargo or part cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk. ■ •
2. "Clean ballast" means ballast carried in a tank which, since it was last used to carry a cargo containing a substance in Category A, B, C, or D has been thor­ oughly cleaned and the residues resulting therefrom have been discharged and the tank emptied in accord­ ance with the appropriate requirements of this Regula­ tion.
" Segregated ballast " means ballast -water introduced into a tank permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious liquid substances as variously defined in the Regulations of this Annex, and which is completely separated from the cargo and oil fuel system .
"Liquid substances" are those having a vapour pres­ sure not exceeding 2.8 kp / cms at -a temperature of 37.8 °C.
"Noxious liquid substance" means any substance designated in Appendix III to this Annex or provi­ sionally ' assessed under the provisions of Sub-Para­ graph 4 of Paragraph B of this Regulation as falling into Category A, B, C, or D;
B Categorization and Listing of Noxious Liquid Substances
1. For the purposes of this Regulation noxious liquid substances shall be divided into four categories as fol­ lows :
a) Category A – noxious liquid substances .which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a major hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause • serious harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of stringent anti-pollution measures;
b) Category B – noxious liquid substances which, if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal- Jasting operations would present a hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of special anti-pollu­ tion measures;
c) Category C – noxious liquid substances which if c) Gruppe C p- schädliche flüssige Stoffe, die, wenn sie
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or dcbal- lasting operations would present a minor hazard to either marine . resources or human health or cause
minor harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore require special operational conditions ;
d) Category D – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a recognizable hazard to cither marine resources or human health or cause minimal harm to amenities or other legiti­ mate uses of the sea .and therefore require some attention in operational conditions.
 2. Guidelines for use in the categorization of noxious liquid substances are given in Appendix II to this Annex.
3. The list of noxious liquid substances carried in bulk and presently categorized which are subject to the provi­ sions of this Regulation is set out in Appendix III to this Annex.
4. Where it is proposed to carry a liquid substance in bulk which has not been categorized under Sub-Para­ graph 1 ol this Paragraph or 'evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph C of this Regulation the Contracting Parties involved in the proposed operation shall establish and agree on a provisional assessment for the proposed operation on the basis of the guidelines referred to in Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph. Until full agreement between the Governments involved has been reached, the substance shall be carried under the most severe conditions proposed.
1. The substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex have been evaluated and found to fall outside the Categories A, B, C, and D, as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph B of this Regulation because they are presently considered to present no harm to human health, marine resources, amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea, when discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or deballasting operations.
2. The discharge of bilge or ballast water or other residues or mixtures containing only substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex shall not be subject to any requirement of this Regulation.
3. The discharge into the sea of cleaft ballast or ment of this Regulation.
D Discharge of Noxious Liquid Substances
Subject to the provisions of Paragraph E of this Regu­ lation :
1. The discharge into the sea of substances in Category A as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of Para­ graph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures c'ontaining such substances shall be prohibited. If tanks containing .such substances or mixtures are to be washed, the resulting residues shall be discharged to a reception facility which the Contract­ ing Parties shall provide in accordance with Paragraph H of this Regulation, until the concentration of the sub­ stance in the effluent to such facility is at or below the residual conce'ntfation prescribed for that substance in column IV of Appendix III to this Annex and until the tank is empty. Provided that the residue then remaining in the tank is subsequently diluted by the addition of a volume of water of not less than 5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, it may be discharged into the sea v/hen all the following conditions are also satisfied:
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a -speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled .ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled;
12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not lass than 25 metres.
 2. The discharge into the sea of substances in (2) Das Hinleiten ins Meer von Stoffen der Gruppe B Category B as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of Para- im Sinne des Abschnitts B Absatz 1 Buchstabe b oder graph B of this Regulation or of those provisionally von vorlaufig als solche bewerteten Stoffen oder von assessed as such or ballast water, tank wa.hir.gs, or Ballastwasser, Tankwuschwasser oder sonstigeu Ruck-
other residues or mixtures containing such substanccs
shall be prohibited except when all the following condi- tions are satisfied : •
a) the tank has been washed after unloading with a volume of water of not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, and the resulting residues have been discharged to a reception facility until the tank is empty;
b) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of. ships which are not self- propelled;
washings are approved by the Administration and . shall ensure- that the concentration and rate of dis­
charge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the wake astern of the ship .does not exceed 1 part per million;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, -taking into account the location of the seawater intakes; and '
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not less than 25 metres.
3. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate­
gory C as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Paragraph B
of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as
such or ballast watei, tank washings, or other residues BallastwasseT, Tankwaschwasser oder sonstigen Rück­
or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro­ hibited except w;hen all the following conditions are satisfied; ■ *
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least
7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- • propelled;
approved by the Administration and shall ensure that the concentration and rate of discharge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the
wake astern of the ship does not exceed 1 part per million;
c) the maximum quantity of cargo discharged from each c) die Höchstmenge der aus jedem Tank und dem dazu­
tank and its associated piping system does not exceed the maximum quantity approved in accordance with . the procedures referred to in Sub-Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph which shall in no case exceed the greater of 1 cubic metre or 1 / 3.000 of the tank capac­ ity in cubic metres ;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account thfe location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge 'is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth -
. of water of not less than 25 metres.
4. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate-
gory D as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Paragraph B
of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as
such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least
7 knots in the case^of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not seif- propelled ; « *
 I>) such mixtures are of a concentration not greater than b) die Gemische habon eine Konzentraiion von höch­ - one part of the substance in ten parts of wtitcr; and stens einem Teil des jeweiligen Stoffes auf zehn Teile
the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea: or
12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
discharge into the sea of the resulting tank washings shall be made in accordance with Sub-Paragraphs 1, 2, 3. or 4 of this Paragraph, whichever is applicable.
washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited.
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall not apply to:
6. The discharge into the sea of substances which have not been categorized, provisionally assessed, or
b) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances b) or mixtures containing such substances resulting from
, damage to a ship or its equipment:
(i) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted either with intent to cause damage, or reckfessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or '
c) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution incidents in order to minimize the damage from pollution. Any such dis­ charge shall be subject to the approval of any Con­ tracting Party in whose jurisdiction it is contemplated
- the discharge will occur.
F Measures of Control
1. The Contracting Parties shall appoint or authorize
surveyors for the purpose of implementing this Para­
2. a) If a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pump­
ing or transfer operation carried out in connection with
that tank shall also be entered in the' Cargo Record
3. If the tank is to be washed :
a) the effluent from the tank washing operation shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility at least until the concentration of the substance in the
discharge, as indicated by analyses of samples of the effluent taken by the surveyor, has fallen to the residual concentration specified for th'at substance In Appendix III to tl .s Annqx. V/hc.i the required re-
sidual concentration has been achieved, remaining ' tank washings shall continue to be discharged to the reception facility until the tank is empty. Appropriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo
Record Book and certified by the surveyor; and
b) after diluting the residue then remaining in the tank with at least 5 per cent of the tank capacity of water, this mixture may be discharged into the sea in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Sub-Paragraphs 1 a), b), and c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. Ap­ propriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
4. Where the Government of the receiving Party is
satisfied that it is impracticable to measure the concen­
tration of the substance in the effluent without causing
graph 3 a) of this Paragraph provided that :
a) a precleaning procedure for that tank and that - sub­ stance is approved by fhe Administration and that Party is satisfied that such procedure will fulfil the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph D of this Regulation with respect to the attainment of the prescribed residual concentrations;
b) a surveyor duly authorized by that Party shall certify in the Cargo Record Book that:
(i) the tank, its pump and piping system have been emptied, and that the quantity of cargo remaining in the tank is at or below the quantity on which the approved precleaning procedure referred to in Sub-Paragraph (ii) of this Sub-Paragraph has been based;
(ii) precleaning has been carried out in accordance with the precleaning procedure approved by the Administration for. that tank and that substance; and
(iii) the tank washings resulting from such preclean-. ing have been discharged to a reception facility and the tank is empty;
c) the discharge into the sea of any remaining residues c) sofern das Einleiten etwaiger verbleibender Rück­
shall . be in accordance with the provisions ojf Sub- Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may ;.be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Category B substance, enstrre compliance with the following :
a) if a tank is pqrtially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pumping or transfer operation carried out in connection with that tank shall also be entered in the Cargo Record Book ;
c) if the tank is to be washed, the effluent from the c) soll der Tank ausgewaschen werden, so ist clor beim
tank washing operation, which shall contain a volume of water not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility until the tank, its pump and piping system arc empty. An appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
d) if the tank is to be further cleaned and -emptied at sea, the Master shall:
 (i) ensure that the approved procedures referred to , in Sub-Paragraph 2 c) of Paragraph D of this Regu­ lation are complied with and lhat the appropriate entries are made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(ii) ensure that any discharge into the sea. is made in accordance wilh the requirements of Sub-Para­ graph 2 of Paragraph D of this Regulation and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book ;
e) if after unloading a Category B substance, any res­ idues of tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the Baltic Sea Area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
6. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Category C substance,,ensure compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not • cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) .if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(iii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea the approved procedures shall be complied with, and the necessary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An ap­ propriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(iv) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(v) any subsequent discharge into the sea .of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 3 of "Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
(i) the tank- washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ' ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location and disposition of the tank washings;
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
the quantity of substance remaining in the tank shall not exceed the maximum quantity which may be discharged into the sea for that sub­ stance under Sub-Paragraph 3 c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. An appropriate efltry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; : *
d) if after unloading a Category C substance within the Baltic Sea Area, any residues or tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
7. The Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Cate­ gory D substance, ensure compliance with the following:
aj if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall . be drained and an appropriate entry made in the
(ii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea, the neces­ sary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An appro­ priate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
(iii) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
' (iv) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 4 of 'Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
c) if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
–(i) the tank washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion- facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location
' and disposition of the tank washings.
Discharge from a Slop Tank
8. Any residues, retained on board in a slop tank,
including those from pump room bilges, which contain a
Category A or a Category B substance, shall be dis­
charged to a reception facility in accordance with the
this Regulation, whichever is applicable. An appropriate- entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
9. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank, includiug those from pump room bilges, which contain a Category C substance in excess of the aggregate of the
maximum quantities specified in Sub-Paragraph 3c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation shall be discharged to a reception facility. An appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book. .
1. Every ship to which this Regulation applies shall be provided with a Cargo Record Book, whether as part of the ship 's official log book or otherwise , in the form specified in Appendix V to this Annex.
2. The Cargo Record Book shall be completed, on a tank-to-tank basis, whenever any of the following opera­ tions with respect to a noxious liquid substance takes place in the ship :
m loading of cargo ; (ii) unloading of cargo;
(iii ) transfer of cargo ;
(iv) transfer of cargo, cargo residues or mixtures con­
taining cargo to a slop tank ; cleaning of cargo tanks ; transfer from slop tanks ; ballasting of cargo tanks; transfer of dirty ballast water;
discharge into the sea in accordance with Para­ graph D of this Regulation.
 ■ 3. In the event of any discharge of the kind referred to in Annex VI of the present Convention and Para­ graph E of this Regulation of any noxious liquid sub­ stance or mixture containing such substance, whether intentional or accidental, an entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book stating the circumstances of,- and the reason for, the discharge.
4. When a surveyor appointed or outhorized' by a Contracting Party to supervise any operations under this Regulation has inspected a ship, then that surveyor shall make an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Each operation referred to in Sub-Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Paragraph shall be fully recorded without delay in the Cargo Record Book so that all the entries in the Book appropriate to that operation are completed. Each entry shall be signed by the officer or officers in charge of the operation concerned and , when the ship is manned , each page shall be signed by the Master of "the ship. The entries in the Cargo Record Book shall be in an official language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly, and, except when the ship is engaged in domestic voyages, in English or French. The entries in an official national language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly shall prevail in case of a dispute or discrepancy.
6. The Cargo Record Book shall be kept in such a place as to be readily available for inspection and, except in the case of unmanned ships under tow, shall be kept on board the ship. It shall be retained for a period of two years after the last entry has been made.
7. The competent authority of a Contracting Party may
inspect the Cargo Record Book on board any ship to -kann das Ladungstagebuch an Bord jedes Schiffes, für
which this Regulation applies while the ship is in its port, and may make a copy of any entry in that Book and may require the Master of the ship to certify that the copy
is a true copy of such entry. Any copy so made which has been certified by the Master of the ship as a true copy of an entry in the ship's Cargo Record Book shall be made admissible in any judicial proceedings as evidence of the facts stated in the entry. The inspection
of a Cargo Record Book and the taking of a certified copy by the competent authority under this Paragraph shall be performed as expeditiously as possible without • causing the ship to be unduly delayed. ■ •
1. The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure "the provision of reception facilities according to the needs of ships using their ports, terminals or repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area a$ follows:
a) cargo loading and unloading ports and terminals shall have facilities adequate for reception without undue delay to ships of such residues and mixtures con­ taining noxious liquid substances as would remain for disposal from ships carrying them as a conse­ quence of the application of this Regulation; and
b) »hip repair ports undertaking repairs to chemical tan­ b) Schiffsreparaturhäfen, die Reparaturen an Chemika-
kers shall have facilities adequate for the reception of residues and mixtures containing noxious liquid substances.
2. Each Contracting Party shall determine the types of facilities provided fw the purpose of Sub-Paragraph 1
poits, terminals and ship repair ports of the Baltic Sea" Ailici.
Harmful substances In packaged forms
A. The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible apply suitable uniform rules for the carriage of harmful substances in packaged forms or in freight containers, portable tanks or road and rail tank wagons.
B. With respect to certain harmful substances, as may be designated by the Commission, the Master or owner of the ship or his representative shall notify the appro­ priate port authority of the intent to load or unload such substances at least 24 hours prior to such action.
C. A report of an incident involving harmful sub­ stances shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex VI of the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on discharge of sewage ships while operating in the Baltic Sea -Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
"New ship" means a ship:
a) for which the building contract is placed, or in the absence of a building contract, the keel of which is laid, or which is at a similar stage of construc­ tion, on or after the date of entry into force of the present Convention ; or
b) the delivery of which is three years or more after the date of entry into force of the present Conven­ tion.
"Existing ship" means a ship which is not a new ship.
a) drainage and other wastes from any form of toilets, urinals, and WC scuppers;
b) drainage from medical premises (dispensary, sick bay, etc.) via wash basins, wash tubs and scuppers located in such premises ;
c) drainage from spaces containing living animals; or
d) other waste waters when mixed with the drainages, defined above.
"Holding tank" means a tank used for the collection and storage of sewage.
1. The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to:
a) new ships certified to carry more than 100 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1977;
b) existing ships certified to carry more than 400 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1978; and
and (iii), from dates decided by the C-ontracting Par­ ties on recommendation by the Commission :
(i) ships of 200 tons "gross tonnage and
 (ii) ships of less: lhan 200 tons gross tonnage which arc certified to carry more than 10 persons ;
(iii) ships which do not have a measured gross ton­ nage and arc certified to carry more than 10 per­ sons.
In the case of new such ships the date shall be not later than 1 January 1979. In the case of existing such ships the date shall be not later than ten yeecrs after the date decided for new ships.
2. A Contracting Party may, if it is satisfied that the application of the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of this Paragraph with respect to a certain ship would necessi­ tate constructional alterations which would be unreason­ able, exempt the ship from the application until a date not later than ten years after the date of entry into force of the present Convention.
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph D of this Regulation, the discharge of sewage into the s4a is pro­ hibited, except when:
a) the ship is discharging comminuted and disinfected sewage using a system approved by the Administra­ tion at a distance of more , than 4 nautical miles from the nearest land, or sewage which is not comminuted or disinfected at a distance of more than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land, provided that in any case the sewage that has been stored in holding tanks shall not be discharged instantaneously but at a moderate rate when the ship is en route and proceeding at not less than 4 knots : or
b) the ship has in operation a sewage treatment plant which has been approved by the Administration, and
(i) the test results of the plant are laid down in a document carried by the ship;
(ii) additionally, the effluent shall not produce visible floating solids in, nor cause discolouration of the surrounding water; or
c) the ship is situated in the waters under the jurisdic- c) daß das Schiff sich in Gewässern im Hoheitsbereich
• tion of a State and is discharging sewage in accord­ ance with such less stringent requirements as may be imposed by such State.
2. When the sewage is mixed with wastes of waste water having different discharge requirements, the.more stringent requirements shall apply.
Paragraph C of .this Regulation shall not apply to :
a) the discharge of sewage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on
board or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge of sewage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment if all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the discharge.
1. Each Contracting Parly undertakes to ensure the
provision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the
of the siiips using them.
2. To enable pipes of reception facilities to be con­ nected with the ship's discharge pipeline, both lines shall be fitted with a standard discharge connection in accord­ ance with the following table :
Standard Dimensions of Flanges for Discharge Connections
Slo.ts in flange
Flange thickness
Bolts and nuts: quantity and diameter
According to pipe outside diameter
equidisfantly placed on a bolt circle of the above diameter, slotted to the flange periphery. The slot width to be 18 mm
4, each of 16 mm in diam­ eter and of suitable length
For the purposes of this Regulation:
The flange is designed to accept pipes up to a maxi­ mum internal diameter of 100 mm and shall be of steel or other equivalent material having a flat face. This flange, together with a suitable gasket, shall be suitable for a service pressure of 6 kg/cni!.
For ships having a moulded depth of 5 metres and less, the inner diameter of the discharge connection may be 38millimetres. * ■ ' '
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1«January 1976 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on the disposal of garbage from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
"Garbage" mcans .i1! kinds of victual, domestic and operational waste excluding fresh fish and parts thereof, gencrated durintj the normal Operation of the ship and liable to be disposed of continuously or periodically ex- ccpt those substance^which are defined or listed in other Regulalions of this Annex.
 B DisposaI of Garbage
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs C and D of this Regulation:
a) disposal into the sea of the following is prohibited:
(i) all plastics, including but not limited to synthetic ropes, synthetic fishing nets and plastic garbage bags; and
(ii) all other garbage, including paper products, rags, glass, metal, bottles, crockery, dunnage, lining and packing materials ;
b) disposal into the sea of food wastes shall be made as far as practicable from land, but in any case not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
2. When the garbage is mixed with other discharges having different disposal or discharge requirements the more stringent requirements shall apply.
C Special-Requirements for Fixed and Floating Platforms
1. Subject to the provisions of SuB-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph, .the disposal of any materials regulated by this Regulation is prohibited from fixed or floating plat­
• forms . engaged in the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral re­ sources, and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms.
2. The disposal into the sea of food wastes may be permitted when they have passed through a comminuter or grinder from such fixed or floating platforms located more than 12 nautical miles from land and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms. Such comminuted or ground food wastes shall be capable of passing through a screen with openings no greater than 25 millimetres.
Paragraphs B and C of this Regulation shall not apply to :
a) the disposal of garbage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea,- or
b) the escape o'f garbage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment provided all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage, for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the escape; Or •
c) the accidental loss of synthetic fishing nets or syn­ thetic material incidental to the repair of such nets, provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken to prevent such loss.
Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the pro­ vision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the Baltic Sea Area for the reception of garbage, without causing undue delay to ships, and according to the needs of the ships using them.
 Appendix I List of Oils *)
Aromatic Oil (excluding vegetable oil) Lubricating Oils and Blending
*) The list of oils shall not necessarily be considered as comprehensive.
Guidelines for the Categorization of Noxious Liquid Substances
Substances which are bioaccumulaled and liable to
which are highly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a
Hazard Rating 4, defined by a TLra less than 1 pprn); and
additionally certain substances which are moderately
toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 3,
defined by a TLm of 1 or more, but less than 10 ppm)
when particular weight is given to additional factors in sind (ausgedrückt durch Gefahrenstufe 3, bezeichnet the hazard profile or to special characteristics of the durch eine TLm von 1 oder mehr, aber weniger als substance .
Stoffe, die leicht giftig für Wasserpflanzen und -tiere expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of sind (ausgedrückt durch Gefahrenstufe 2, bezeichnet 10 or more, but less than 100 ppm); and additionally cer­ durch eine TLm von 10 oder mehr, aber weniger als tain substances which are practically non-toxic to aquatic 100 ppm) sowie bestimmte Stoffe, die praktisch ungiftig life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a für Wasserpflanzen und -tiere sind (ausgedrückt durch TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than 1.000 ppm) when Gefahrenstufe 1, bezeichnet, durch eine TLm von . 100 particular weight is given to additional factors in the oder mehr, aber weniger als 1 000 ppm), Venn zusätz­ hazard profile or to special characteristics of the sub­ lichen Faktoren im Gefahrenprofil oder besonderen
CategoryB , - Substances which are "bioaccumulated with a short retention of the order of one week or less; or which are liable to produce tainting of the -sea food; or wliich are moderately toxic to acquatic life (as expressed by a Haz­ ard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 ppm or more, but less than 10 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of 10 ppm or more, but less than 100 ppm) when particular weight is given to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special
characteristics of the substance.
Substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as
Substances which are practically non-tpxic to aquatic
life , (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1 , defined by a
TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than - 1.000 ppm); or
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD); or highly hazardous to human health, with an LD50 of less than 5 mg/kg; or produce moderate reduction of amenities because of persistency, smell or poisonous or irritant characteristics, possibly interfering with use of beaches; or moderately hazardous to human health, with an LD50 of 5 mg/kg or more, but less than 50 mg/kg and produce slight reduc­ tion of amenities.
Other liquid Substances (for the purposes of Paragraph C of Régulation 5)
Substances other than those categorized in Cate- gories A, B, C, and D above.
Acetic anhydride Acetone
(Paragraph D (1) of
■ IV Within
the Baltic
Calcium hydroxide (solution) Camphor oil
List of Noxious Liquid Substances carried in Bulk
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
- (Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
*) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally included In this list an** that further data are necessary in order to complete {he evaluation of ils enviiooRicutdi hazards, particularly in relation to living resourcvS.
Caustic potash (Potassium hydroxide) Chloroacetic acid
para-Cymene (Isopropyltoluene) *) Decahydronaphthalene
Diisobutyl ketone Diisopropanolamme Diisopropylamine
Diisopropyl ether *)
•Dimethylamine (40 Vo aqueous) Dimethylethanolamine
(2-Dimethylaminoethanoî) *) Dimcthylformamide
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
I II III IV Within
•) Asterisk indicates thai the substance has been provisionally included in this list find that furlhci data are necessity in oidoi to complete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in relation to Ifving resources.
the Baltic Sea Area
Heptanoic acid *) Hexamethylenediamine *)
Hydrofluoric acid (40 °/o aqueous) Hydrogen peroxide (greater than 60 °/o) Isobutyl acrylate
Isopropyl cyclohexane Isoprene
Methyl acrylate Methylamyl alcohol Methylene chloride 2-Methyl-5-Ethylpyridine •) Methyl methacrylate 2-Methypentene *)
Pollution Category for oper- -
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (I) of
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally included in this list and that further dala are necessary in order to complete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, paiticularly in relation to living resource.
I II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Phthalic Anhydride (molten) beta-Propiolactone *) Propionaldehyde
Propionic anhydride n-Propyl acetate *) n-Propyl alcohol n-Propylamine Pyridine
Naphtheiiic acids *)
Pentachloroethane
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
•) Asterisk indicates that tho substance has been provisionally included in this list and that further data are necessary In order to comp.ete. the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in relatfon to livifig resources.
ψ Within
the Baltic Sea Area
1649 A D 1294 C 2078 B J .c 1710 B Triethanolamine D 1296 C c B 1299 B 1301 - C 1303 B 1307 C
Tritolyl phosphate (Tricresyl phosphate) *) Turpentine (wood)
Xylenes (mixed isomers)
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
•) Asterisk Indicates that the substance has been provisionally Included in this list and that further data are oecessary ih order to complete the evaluation ot its environmental hazards, particularly In relation to living resources.
1 II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Aminoathyl-athanolamin (Hydroxyathylathylen- diamin) *)
D 1005 B iso-Amylacetat 1104 C n-Amylacetat 1104 C
Diàthylàther
Diäthylentriamin *) Diäthylenglycol-monoäthyläther
Dnsopropylàther *)
Dimethylamin (40% wasserhaltig) Dimethylâthanolamin
(2-Dimethylaminoâthanol) *)
Athylendibromid Athylendichlond Äthylenglycol-monoäthyläther (Methylkolloidlôsung) 2-AthylhexyIacrylat *) 2-Athylhexylalkohol Athyllactat *)
Isophoron Isopropylainin Isopropylcyclonexan Isopren
c 2054 .c 1334 A A 2031 / 2032 C D ortho-Nitrotoluol 1664 C c c c Oleum : 1831 C D 1669 B 1265 C 1897- B
Monoäthanolamin
(Trikresylphosphat) Terpentin (Holz) Vinylacetat Vinylidenchlorid •) Xylole (Isomerengemisch)
Decyl octyl alcohol Dibutyl ether Diethanolamine Diethylene glycol Dipentene
Fatty alcohols (Ci«– C20) Glycerine
Heptene (mixed isomers)
List of other Liquid Substances . carried in Bulk
Olivenöl Polypropylenglycol iso-Propylacetat iso-Propylalkohol Propylenglycol Propylenoxyd Propylen tetramer Propylen trimer Sorbit
Cargo Record Books for Ships carrying Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk
Name of ship
Cargo carrying capacity of each tank in cubic metres
Voyage from
a) Loading of cargo
1. Date and place of loading ,
2. Name and category of cargo(es) loaded
3. Identity of tank(s) loaded
b) Transfer of cargo
4. Date of transfer
5. Identity of tank(s) (i) From ii) To
7. If not, quantity remaining
c) Unloading of cargo
8. Date and place of unloading 9. Identity of tank(s) unloaded
11. If not, quantity remaining in tank(s)
12. Is (are) tank(s) to be cleaned? 13. Amount transferred to slop tank 14. Identity of slop tank -
d) Ballasting of cargo tanks
- 15. Identity of tank(s) ballasted
16. Date and position of ship at start of ballasting
Cleaning of cargo tanks Category A substances
17. Identity of tank(s) cleaned
18. Date and location of cleaning
19. Method(s) of cleaning
20. Location of reception facility used
21. Concentration of effluent when discharge to recep­ tion facility stopped
22. Quantity remaining in tank ;
23. Procedure and amount of water introduced into tank in final cleaning
24. Location, date of discharge into the sea
25. Procedure and^equipment used in discharge into the sea
; Signature of Master 46
 Category B, C, and D substances
26. Washing procedure used
27. Quantity of water used
28. Date, location of discharge into the sea
29. Procedure and equipment used in discharge into the sea
f) Transfer of dirty ballast water
30. Identity of tank(s)
31. Date and position of ship at start of discharge into the sea
32. Date and position of.ship at finish of discharge into the sea
34. Quantity discharged into the sea
35. Quantity of polluted water transferred to slop tank(s) (identify slop'tanks(s))
36. Date and port of discharge'to reception facilities (if applicable)
g) Transfer from slop tank/disposal of residue
37. Identity of slop tank(s)
38. Quantity disposed from each tank 39. Method of disposal of residue :
(b) Mixed with cargo
(c) Transferred to another (other) tank(s) (identify
(d) Other method
40. Date and port of disposal of residue
h) Accidental or other exceptional disdiarge
41. Date and time of occurrence
42. Place or position of ship at time of occurrence
43. Approximate quantity, name and category of substance
44. Circumslanccs of disdiarge or escape and gèneral remarks.
Signature of Master
Annex in respect of matter intended for dumping in the Einbringen im Ostseegebiet bestimmt sind, wenn sie Baltic Sea Area:' "
Exceptions from the General Prohibition of Dumping of Waste and other Matter in the Baltic Sea Area
In accordance with Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the present Convention the prohibition of dumping shall not apply to the disposal at sea of dredged spoils provided that:
1. they do not contain significant quantities and concen­ trations of substances to be defined by the Commis­ sion and listed in Annexes I and II of the present Con­ vention; and
2. the dumping is carried out under a prior special permit given by the appropriate national authority, either
a) within the area of the territorial sea of the Con­ tracting Party; or
b) outside the area of the territorial sea, whenever necessary, after prior consultations in the Com­ mission.
When issuing such permits the Contracting Party shall comply with the provisions in Regulation 3 of this Annex.
1. The appropriate national authority referred to in Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the present Convention shall :
a) issue special permits provided for in Regulation 1 of this Annex;
b) keep records of the nature and quantities of matter permitted to be dumped and the location, time and method of dumping;
c) collect available information concerning the nature and quantities of matter that has been dumped in the Baltic Sea Area recently and up to the coming into force of the present Convention, provided that the
- dumped matter in question could be liable to cont- - aminate water or organisms in the Baltic: Sea Area, to . be caught by fishing equipment, or otherwise to give rise to harm , and the location , time and method of such dumping.
2. The appropriate national authority shall issue
tory or flying its flag, when the leading occurs in the territory of a State not Party to the present Conven­ tion .
3. When issuing permits under Sub-Paragraph 1 a)
4. Each Contracting Party shall Teport to the Commis­ sion, and where appropriate to other Contracting Parties, the information specified in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regu­ lation 2 of this Annex. The procedure to be followed and the nature of such reports shall be determined by the Commission. . . '
When issuing special permits according to Regulation 1 of this Annex the appropriate national authority shall take into account:
1. Quantity of dredged spoils to be dumped.
2. The content of the matter referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention.
3. Location (e.g. co-ordinates of the dumping area, depth and distance from coast) and its relation to areas of special interest (e.g. amenity areas, spawning, nursery and fishing areas, etc.).
4. Water characteristics, if dumping is carried out out­ side the territorial sea, consisting of:
a) hydrographic properties (e. g. temperature, salinity, density, profile);
b) chemical properties (e. g. pH, dissolved oxygen, nutrients); . -
c) biological properties (e. g. primary production and benthic animals).
The data should include sufficient information on the annual mean levels and the seasonal vaiiation of the properties mentioned in this Paragraph.
Article 9 of the present Convention shall include the müssen folgende Angaben enthalten: following information:,
material, and counter measures taken:
a) location (e. g. co-ordinates of the accidental dump­ ing site, depth and distance from-the coast); *.
b) method of deposit ;
. c) quantity and composition of dumped matter as well as its physical (o. g. solubility and density), chemi­ cal and biochemical " e. g. oxygen demand, nutrients), and biological properties, (e. g. presence
of viruses, bacteria, yeasts, parasites);
d) toxicity ;
e) content of the substances referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention ;
f) dispersal characteristics (e. g. effects of currents and wind, and horizontal transport and vertical mixing);
g) water characteristics (e. g. temperature, pH, redox conditions , salinity and stratification );
h) bottom diaracteristics (e. g. topogtaphy, geological characteristics and redox conditions);
i) counter measures taken and follow-up operations carried out or planned.
2. General considerations and conditions:
a) possible effects on amenities (e. g. floating or stranded material, turbidity, objectionable odour, discolouration and foaming); ' .
 b) possible effect on marine life, fish and shellfish culture, fish stocks and fisheries, seaweed harvest­ ing and cultures; and
c) possible effects on other uses of the sea (e.g. impairment of water quality for industrial use, underwater corrosion of structures, interference with ship operations from floating materials, inter­ ference with fishing or navigation and protection of areas of special importance for scientific or conservation purposes),..
For the purposes of this Annex:
operating in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats , air-cushion vehicles , submersibles , floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration " means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag of any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the .coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal
effluents containing such substances , means any ' release howsoever caused from a ship and in­ cludes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pump­
- ing, emitting or emptying.
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­
tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by _ Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972 ; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated offshore processing of sea-bed mineral resources; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
The Contracting Parlies undertake to maintain ability to combat spillages of oil and other harmful substances on the sea. This ability shall include adequate equip­ ment, ships and manpower prepared for operations in coastal waters as well as on the high sea.
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, devel­ op and apply , individually or in co-operation , surveillance activities covering the Baltic Sea Area ,. in order to spot and monitor oil and other harmful substances released into the sea.
In the case of loss overboard of harmful substances in packages , freight containers , portable tanks , or road and rail lank wagons, tBe Contracting Parties shall co-operate in the salvage and recovery of such packages, containers
or tanks so as to minimize the danger to the environ­ ment.
1. The Contracting Parties shall develop and apply a system for receiving, channeling and dispatching reports on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea, as well as any incident causing or likely to cause any kind of significant pollution.
2. The Contracting Parties shall request masters of ships and pilots of aircraft to report without delay in accordance with this system on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea. Such reports should as far as possible contain the following data: time, position, wind and sea conditions, and kind, extent and probable source of the spill observed.
3. The master of a ship involved in an incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation, or other person having charge of the ship, shall without delay cind to the fullest extent possible report in accordance with this system and with the provisions of the Appfendix to the present Annex.
4. Each- Contracting Party undertakes to issue instruc­ tions to its maritime inspection vessels and aircraft and to other appropriate services, to report to its authorities any observation or incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation. Such reports shall as far as possible contain the data referred to in Paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Regulation respectively, as well as possible indications on the spreading or drifting tendencies of the spill in question.
5. Whenever a Contracting Party is aware of a casualty or the presence of spillages of oil or other harmful substances in the Baltic Sea Area likely to constitute a serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area or the coast or related interests of any other Contracting Party, it shall without delay transmit all relevant information thereon to the Contracting Party which may be affected by the pollutant and, as regards ship casualty incidents, to the Administration of the ship involved.
■ Each Contracting Party shall request masters of ships flying its flag to provide, in case of an incident, on re­ quest by the proper authorities, such detailed informa­ tion about the ship and its cargo which :-is relevant to actions for preventing or combatting pollution of the sea, and to co-operate with these authorities.
1. a) The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible agree bilaterally or multilaterally on those regions of the Baltic Sea Area in which they will take action for combatting or salvage activities whenever a significant spillage of oil or other harmful substances or any in­ cidents causing or likely to cause pollution within the Baltic Sea Area have occurred or are likely to occur. Such agreements shall not prejudice any other agree­ ments concluded between Contracting Parties concerning the same subject. The neighbouring States shall ensure the harmonization of the different agreements. The Contracting Parties shall inform each other about such agreements.
The Contracting Parties may ask the Commission for assistance to reach agreement, if needed.
 b) The Contracting Party within whose region a situation as described in Regulation 1 of this Annex occurs shall make the necessary assessments of the situation' and take adequate action in order to avoid or minimize subsequent pollution effects and shall keep drifting parts of the spillage under observation until no further action is called for.
2. In the case that such a spillage is drifting or is likely to drift into a region, where another Contracting Party should take action for purposes as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of this Regulation, that Party shall without delay be informed of the situation and the actions that have been taken.
A Contracting Party requiring assistance for combatting spillages of oil or other harmful substances, at sea is entitled to call for assistance by other Contracting Parties, starting with those who seem likely also to be affected by the spillage. Contracting Parties called upon for assistance in accordance with this Regulation shall use their best endeavours to bring such assistance. .
1. The Contracting Parties shall provide information to the other Contracting Parties and the Commission about
a) their national organization for dealing with spillages at sea of oil and other harmful substances;
. b) . national regulations and other matters which have a direct bearing on combatting pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances; *
dispatching reports of pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances;
d) the competent authorities for dealing with questions concerning measures of mutual assistance, informa­
2. The Contracting Parties shall exchange information of research and development programs and results' con­ cerning ways in which pollution by oil and other harmful substances at sea may be dealt with and experiences in combatting such pollution.
The authorities referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Regulation 9 of this Annex shall establish direct contact and co-operate in operational matters.
e). actions taken in accordance with Regulation 8 of this .. e) die nach Regel 8 getroffenen Maßnahmen. Annex. _ .
on Incidents Involving Harmful Substances
Duty to Report
1. The Master of a ship involved in an incident re­ ferred to in Regulation 3 of this Appendix, or other per­ son having charge of the ship, shall report the particulars of such incident without delay and to the fullest extent possible in accordance with the provisions of this Appendix .
2. In the event of the ship referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation being abandoned, or in the event of a report from such ship being incomplete or unobtainable, the owner, charterer, manager or operator of the ship, or their agents shall, to the fullest extent possible assume the obligations placed upon the Master under the provi­ sions of this Appendix.
1. Each report shall be made by radio whenever possible, but in any case by the fastest channels avail­ able at the time the report is made. Reports made by radio shall be given the highest possible priority.
tion 9 of Annex VI of the present Convention.
When to Make Reports
The report shall be made whenever an incident in­ volves :
a) a discharge other than as permitted under the present Convention; or
b) a discharge permitted under, the present Convention by virtue of the fact that:
(i) it is for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea ; or
(ii) it results from damage to the ship or its equip­ ment; or
c) a discharge of a harmful substance for the purpose of
combatting s specific pollution incident or for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abate­
ment or control ; or
d) the probability of a discharge referred to in Sub- d) Paragraph a), b), or c) of this Regulation...
Contents of Report .
the identity of ship ;
the time and date of the occurrence of the incident;
the geographic position of the ship when the incideift occurred ;
2. Reports shall be directed to the appropriate officer
or agency referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regula­ *■ oder Stelle nach Regel 9 Absatz 1 Buchstabe c der An­
 -d) the wind and sea conditions prevailing at the time of d) Wind- und Seeverhältnisse zur Zeit des Ereignisses
- the incident ; and
-c) relevant details respecting the condition of the ship.
2. Each report shall contain, in particular:
a) a clear indication or description of the harmful substances involved, including, if possible, the correct technical names of such substances (trade names should not be used in place of the correct technical names);
< b) a statement or estimate of the quantities, concentra­ tions and likely conditions of harmful substances discharged or likely to be discharged into the sea;
c) where relevant, a description of the packaging and • identifying marks ; and
d) if possible the name of the consignor, consignee or manufacturer.
3. Each report shall clearly indicate whether the harm­ ful substance discharged, or likely to be discharged is oil, a noxious liquid substance, a noxious solid substance, or–a noxious gaseous substance and whether such substance was or is carried in bulk or contained in packaged form, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons.
4. Each report shall be supplemented as necessary by any other relevant information requested by a recipient of the report or which the person sending the report deems appropriate.
Supplementary Report
Any person who is obliged under the provisions of this Appendix to send a report shall, when possible:
a) supplement the initial report, as necessary, with in­ formation concerning further developments ; and
b) comply as fully as possible with requests from affect­
ed States for additional information concerning the incident.
Community accession to the Helsinki Convention of 22 March 1974 on protection of the marine environment in the Baltic area (COM(77)48, 24 February 1977)
1. Following the Chefs de Cabinet's discussion on 28 February 1977 of the draft recommendation for a Council decision on the above matter, the Legal Service was requested to submit for the Commission's consideration the various possibilities for it (the Commission) to exercise its powers in the field covered by the Helsinki Convention of 22 March 1974, to which two Member States, Denmark and Germany, are signatories.
2. TheLegalServicewouldobserveinthefirstplacethattheConvention is in the Community sense a composite instrument, in that while some of the
measures therein provided for fall within the Member States* own jurisdiction others, such as the fixing of emission limits and quality objectives in respect of a number of dangerous substances, now fall within the Community's, particularly since the Council 's adoption of the Directive of 4 May 1976
on the reducing of pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged
1 into aquatic environment of the Community .
3. Hence,giventheabove,DenmarkandGermanycanconvenantcontractually with the third countries concerned only if the Community is likewise party to the Convention.
cc: President's Cabinet
Such is the background to the laying before the Commission of the
draft -recommendation for a Council decision authorizing it to open negotiations with the third countries party to the abovementioned Helsinki Convention.
However, since other possibilities have been mooted, notably at an informal meeting in Hamburg on 2 February of representatives of Denmark, Germany and the Commission, in a telex of 28 Februc?ry from the German authorities and by various Chefs de Cabinet, the Legal Service proposes to discuss these also.'
1. The'.firstpossibility,suggestedintheGermanauthorities*telex, would be to let the Member States ratify the Convention, and then, when it had come into force, to make use of the procedures provided for in, inter alia, Article 26 to introduce an amendment allowing subsequent accession by the Community.
This course would be tantamount to the Commission^ accepting that thetwoMemberStatesconcernedwouldbeinbreachforanindefiniteperiod, ,
without even then obviating the need for renegotiation of the Convention with the third countries concerned. In addition it would be in conflict
both with the orthodox formula upheld by the Community as concerns the environment at the negotiations for the Paris and Barcelona Conventions
on marine pollution and the Bonn Convention on chemical pollution of the Rhine, and with the position the Commission earlier stated to the two member countries in its letter of 1 October 1976.
It is anyhow open to doubt whether this course really would lead to the Community^ acceding subsequently to the Convention, as it would deprive the Community of the means of pressure at present afforded it by the argument that the Member States are not legally entitled to ratify the Convention until such time as Community participation is secured.
 2. Another possibility would be for the Member States concerned to ratify the Convention with the reservation that it should become operative with respect to them only if and when the Community subsequently acceded to it .
Quite apart from the fact that this unilateral action by the Member States would have no practical effect , the formula cannot be considered since Article 25 of the Convention provides that the Convention's provisions cannot be the subject of reservations.
3. AlastpossibilitywouldbefortheMemberStatesconcernedtobecalled upon to ratify the Convention "on behalf and in the interest of the Community" an arrangement deriving from the Court of Justice's case law in re AETR.
There are two precedents for this course, the first in connection with the very agreement to which the Court's judgment in Case 22/70 related, namely the European transport agreement on crews of vehicles engaged in cross-frontier'road haulage (AETR), and the second with the agreement on cross-frontier carriage of perishables and special equipment therefor (ATF) .
The Legal Service will be considering what use could be made of the arrangement for ratification "on behalf and in the interest of the Community" in the case of the Helsinki Convention.
(a) The Court in its judgment found this to be allowable only in special circumstances, as to which it took account of the following considerations:
- "a good deal" of the negotiation of the agreement antedated the conferring of responsibility on the Community;
- the Commission had not acted in time as regards either using its right of proposal or calling for straight application of Article 223 EEC, and in consequence was ill placed to dispute the Council's decision that the AETR should be concluded by the Member States;
 - lastly, and apparently most cogently, to propose to the third countries concerned, at the stage the negotiations had reached, a redistribution of responsibilities within the Community, i.e. the substitution of the Community itself for the Member States, "could have imperilled the successful completion of the negotiations".
The Court's first two points would seem to apply in the case of the Helsinki Convention: that Convention wa,s negotiated before the Community had jurisdiction in external relations in respect of the environment , and the Commission has not up to now made proposals to the Council as to Community participation in it.
On the other hand it is questionable whether the use of the normal Treaty procedures to negotiate that participation with the third countries concerned could imperil, or at any rate delay, not of course the negotiation of the Helsinki Convention, which is over, but its implementation.
It is difficult to assess this at present , as the Convention has not yet come into force owing to not having been ratified by the seven signatory States, including all the Eastern-bloc countries.
(b) This being so, the main points the Commission should bear in mind in determining whether to choose the normal Treaty negotiating procedure or the special procedure arising out of the AETR judgment, seem to the Legal Service to be as follows:
- experience has shown that where it is the Member States that have to
present the Community's positions at international proceedings the Community has more difficulty in putting its case effectively. If this procedure were used, therefore, the Community's positions in the Commission set up
by the Convention might have less chance of gaining acceptance;
- the normal Treaty procedures were employed to enable the Community to become a contracting party to the Paris and Barcelona Conventions, whose subject-matter is similar to the Helsinki Convention's. And in point of fact some Member States, and in particular France, have several times drawn attention to the similarities of the circumstances surrounding the three Conventions.
It should further be pointed out that the Commission has several times recommended that the Council authorize it to open negotiations for the Community's accession to international agreements already, like the Helsinki Convention, negotiated, and some of them indeed already signed, and even ratified, "by some Member States - the European Convention on protection of animals transported internationally, the European Agreement on the exchange of reagents for tissue grouping, and the Washington Convention on international trade in threatened wildlife species;
- to set a new precedent in this connection without its being definitely established that the orthodox course is impracticable could lead to a practice to which Member States might increasingly resort as and when circumstances seemed to indicate it, especially in dealings with the
Eastern-bloc countries, where this practice would make it more difficult to conclude genuinely Community agreements.
In addition to these legal considerations it seems well to mention, with reference to the question both of what procedure to adopt and of when the Commission should submit its proposal, the following points of fact:
- the Commission is currently negotiating with some of those same countries for genuinely Community agreements on fisheries;
- the Belgrade Conference to open in June on the follow-up to the Helsinki Final Act will be dealing inter alia with one area of cooperation, the environment, to which the Final Act expressly refers.
"Article 6 - Principles and obligations concerning land-b?sed pollution. "1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate ensures to
control. and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ " ment cf the Baltic Sea Area .
"2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate "■ measures to control and strictly limit pollution by noxious sub­
" stances and materials .in accordance with Annex II of the present
" Convention. To this end they shall, inter alia, as appropriate
" co-operate in" the development and adoption of specific programmes,
" guidelines , standards or regulations concerning discharges ,
" environmental quality end products containing such substances
" and materials and their use .
"3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present
" Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment
" cf the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior
" special permit, which m?y be periodically reviewed, by the
on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area
CONSCIOUS of the indispensable economic , social and cultural values of the marine environment of the
Baltic Sea Area and its living resources for the peoples of the Contracting Parties;
BEARING in mind the exceptional hydrographtc and ecological characteristics of the Baltic Sea. Area and the sensitivity of its living resources to changes in the environment;
NOTING the rapid development of human activities at the Baltic Sea Area, the considerable population living within its catchment area and the highly urbanized and industrialized state of the Contracting Parties as well as' their intensive agriculture and forestry;
NOTING with deep concern the increasing pollution
pipelines, dumping and normal operations of vessels as well as through airborne pollutants;
CONSCIOUS of the responsibility of the Contracting Parties to protect and enhance the values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area for the benefit of
their peoples ;
RECOGNIZING that the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of -the Baltic Sea Area are
tasks that cannot effectively be accomplished by national efforts only but that also close regional co-operatio'n and other appropriate international measures aiming at fulfil­ ling these tasks are urgently needed;
NOTING that' the relevant recent international con­ ventions even after having entered into force for the respective Contracting Parties do not cover all special requirements to protect and enhance the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area ;
NOTING the importance of scientific and technologi­ cal co-operation in the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, particu­ larly between the Contracting Parties;
DESIRING to develop further regional co-operation in
llie Bailie Sea Area? the possibilities and requirements Ostseegebiet, deren Möglichkeiten lind Erfordernisse of which were confirmed by the signing of the Conven­ durch die Unterzeichnung dei Konvertier, von 107J Ober
tion on Fishing and Conservation of the Living Resources
 CONSCIOUS of tlie importance of regional intergov­ ernmental co-operation in the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area as an integral part of the peaceful co-operation and mutual understanding be­ tween all European States:
For the purposes of the present Convention "the Baltic Sea Area" shall be the Baltic Sea proper with the Gulf of Bothnia, the Gulf of Finland and the entrance to the Baltic Sea bounded by the parallel of the Skaw in the Skagerrak at 57 ° 44' 8" N. It does not include internal waters of the Contracting Parties.
For the purposes of the present Convention:
1. "Pollution" means introduction by man, directly or ■ indirectly, of . substances or energy into the marine environment, including estuaries, resulting in such deleterious effects as hazard to human health, harm to living resources and marine life, hindrance to legiti- • mate uses of the sea including fishing, impairment of the quality for use of sea water, and reduction of
2. Land-based pollution means pollution of the sea 2. Der Ausdruck .Verschmutzung" vom Land aus" be­
(i) any deliberate disposal at sea of wastes or
other matter from vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;
(ii) any deliberate disposal at sea of vessels, air­ craft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;
caused by discharges from land reaching the sea waterborne, airborne or directly from the cdast, in­ cluding outfalls from pipelines;
b) "Dumping* does not include:
(i) the disposal at sea of wastes or other matter incidental to, or derived from the normal opera­ tions of vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea and their equip­ ment, other than wastes or other matter trans­ ported by or to vessels, aircraft, platforms or
■ other man-made structures at sea, operating for the purpose of disposal of such matter or de­ rived from the treatment of such wastes or
other matter on such vessels, aircraft, platforms or structures:
(n) placement of matter for a purpose- other than the mere disposal-thereof, provided that such
 placement Is not contrary to the aims of the present Convention;
4. "Vessels and aircraft" means waterborne or airborne craft of any type whatsoever. This expression includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft whether self-propelled or not, and fixed or floating platforms; '
5. "Oil" means petroleum in any form including crude oil, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products;
'Harmful substance " means any hazardous, noxious, or other substance, which, if introduced into the sea, is liable to cause pollution ; '
"Incident", means an event involving the actual or probable discharge into the sea of harmful substance, or effluents containing such a substance.
Article 3 - * Fundamental principles and obligations . •
1. The Contracting Parties shall individually or jointly take all appropriate legislative, administrative or other relevant measures in order to prevent and abate pollu­ tion and to protect and enhance the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. The Contracting Parties shall use their best endeav­ Convention shall not cause an increase in the pollution
of sea areas outside the Baltic Sea Area.
1. The present Convention shall apply to the protec­
tion of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, Meeresumwelt des Ostseegebiels, welches das Wasser which comprises the water-body and the sea-bed includ­ und den Meeresgrund einschließlich ihrer lebenden
ing their living resources and other forms of marine life.
2. Without prejudice to the sovereign rights in regard to their territorial sea, each Contracting Party shall im­ plement the provisions of the present Convention within its territorial sea through its national authorities.
3. While the provisions of the present Convention do
not apply to internal waters, which are under the sover­
undertake, without prejudice to their sovereign rights, to ensure that the purposes of the present Convention will be obtained in these waters.
4. The present Convention shall not apply to any warship, naval auxiliary, military aircraft or other ship and aircraft owned or operated by a State and used, for the time being, only on government non-commercial
However, each Contracting Party shall ensure, by the adoption of appropriate measures not impairing the oper­ ations or operational capabilities of such ships and air­ craft owned or operated by it, that such ships and air­ craft act in a manner consistent, so far as is reasonable and practicable, with the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties undertake to counteract the
introduction, whether airborne, waterborne or otherwise, ,
into the Baltic Sea Area of hazardous substances as Ostseegebiel entgegenzuwirken, gleichviel ob auf specified in Annex I of the present Convention.
Principles and obligations concerning . land-based pollution
1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all
appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollu­
tion by noxious substances and materials in accordance
with Annex II of the present Convention. To this end
they shall , inter alia , as appropriate co-operate in the
such substances and materials and their use.
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be. introduced Into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit, which may be periodically reviewed, by the appropriate national au­ thority. i
4. The appropriate national authority will inform the Commission referred to in Article 12 of the present Con­ vention of the quantity, quality and way of discharge if it considers that significant quantities of substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention were discharged.
5. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to establish and adopt common criteria for issuing permits for dis­ charges. «
6. To control and minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea
Area by harmful substances the Contracting Parties shall,
in addition to the provisions of Article 5 of the present
criteria enumerated in Annex III of the present Conven­
Area, the Contracting Parties concerned shall in com­ mon take appropriate measures in order to prevent and abate such pollution.
3. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to use best practicable means in order to minimize the airborne pol­ lution of the Baltic Sea Area by noxious substances.
Prevention of pollution from ships
1. In order to protect the Baltic Sea Area from pollu­ tion by deliberate, negligent or accidental release of oil, harmful substances other than oil, and by the discharge of sewage and garbage from ships, the Contracting Par­ ties shall take measures as set out in Annex IV of the present Convention.
2. The Contracting Parties shall develop and apply
uniform requirements for the capacity and location of
facilities for the reception of residues of oil, harmful-
substances other thctn oil, including sewage and garbage,
taking into account inter alia the special needs of pas­ und wenden diese an, wobei sie unter anderem die
senger ships and combination carriers. •
The Contracting Parties shall, in addition to imple­
with adequate reception facilities for wastes from ple­
Article 8 Pleasure crait
Article 9 Prévention of dumping
1. The Contracting Parties shall, subject to Paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article, prohibit dumping in the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Dumping of dredged spoils shall be subject to a prior special permit by the appropriate national authority in accordance with the provisions of Annex V- of the pres­ ent Convention.
3. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure com­
which is to be dumped; or
c) believed to be engaged in dumping within its ter­ ritorial sea.
4. The provisions of this Article shall not apply when the safety of human life or of a vessel or aircraft at sea is threatened by the complete destruction or total loss of the vessel or aircraft, or . in any case which constitutes a danger to human life, if dumping appears to be the only way of averting the threat and if there is every probabil­ ity that the damage consequent upon such dumping will be less than would otherwise occur. Such dumping shall be so conducted as to minimize the likelihood o. damage to human or marine life.
3. Dumping made under the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Article shall be reported and dealt with in ac­ cordance with Annex VI of the present Convention and shall also be reported forthwith to the Commission refer­ red to in Article 12 of the present Convention in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Regulation 4 of Annex V of the present Convention.
6. In case of dumping suspected to be in contravention of the provisions oi this Article the Contracting Parties shall co-operate in investigating the matter in accordance with Regulation 2 of Annex IV of the present Conven­ tion.
Exploration and exploitation _ of the sea-bed and its subsoil
Each Contracting Party shall take all appropriate meas­ ures in order to prevent pollution of the marine en­ vironment of the Baltic Sea Area resulting from explora­ tion or exploitation of its part of the sea-bed and its subsoil or from any associated activities thereon. It shall also ensure that'adequate equipment is at hand to start an immediate abatement of pollution in that area.
The Contracting Parties shall take measures and co­ operate as set out in Annex VI of the present Conven­ tion in order to eliminate or minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea Area by oil or other harmful substances.
Institutional and organizational framework
1. The Baltic Marine Environment Protection Com­
mission , hereinafter referred to as " the Commission ", is
hereby established for the purposes of the present Con­ vention .
2. The chairmanship of the Commission shall be given to ench Contracting Party in turn in alphabetical ortler of the names of the States in the English language.
The Chairman shall serve for a period of two years, and cannot during the period of his chairmanship serve as representative of his country.
Should the chairmanship fall vacant, the Contracting Party chairing the Commission shall nominate a suc­ cessor to remain in office until the term of chairmanship of that Contracting Party expires.
3. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at least once a year upon convocation by the Chairman. Upon the request of a Contracting Party, provided it is en­ dorsed by another Contracting Party, the ChaBrman shall, as soon as possible, summon an extraordinary meeting at such time and place as the Chairman determines, how­ ever, not later than ninety days from the date of the sub­ mission of the request.
4. The first meeting of the Commission shall be called by the Depositary Government and shall take place within a period of ninety days from the date fol­ lowing the entry into force of the present Convention.
5. Each Contracting Party shall have one vote in the Commission. Unless otherwise provided under the pres­ ent Convention, the Commission shall take its decisions unanimously.
The duties oi the Commission
The duties of the Commission shall be:
To keep the implementation of the present Conven­ tion under continuous observation ;
To make 'recommendations on measures relating to the purposes of the present Convention;
To keep under review the contents of the present c) Convention including its Annexes and to recommend
to the Contracting Parties such amendments to the present Convention including its Annexes as may be required including changes in the lists of substances
and materials as well as the adoption of new An­ nexes ;
To define pollution control criteria, objectives for the reduction of pollution, and objectives concerning meas­ ures, particularly according to Annex III of the pres­ ent Convention ;
e) To promote m close co-operation with appropriate e)
governmental bodies , taking into consideration Sub- Paragraph f) of this Article, additional measures to protect the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area and for this purpose: -
 (i) to receive, process, summarize and disseminate from available sources relevant scientific, tech­
nological diifl statistical information; and
(ii) to promote scientific and technological research;
f) To seek, when appropriate, the services of competent regional and other international organizations to col­ laborate in scientific and technological research as well as other relevant activities pertinent to the ob­ jectives of the present Convention;
g) To assume such other functions as may be appro­ priate under the terms of the present Convention.
Administrative provisions for the Commission
1. The working language of the Commission . shall be English ,
2. The Commission shall adopt its Rules of Procedure.
3. The office of the Commission, hereafter referred to as the "Secretariat", shall be in Helsinki.
4..The Commission shall appoint an Executive Secre­ tary and make provisions for the appointment of such other personnel as may be necessary, and determine the duties, terms and conditions of the Executive Secretary.
5. The Executive Secretary shall be the chief adminis­ trative official of the Commission and shall perform the functions that are necessary for the administration of the present Convention, the work of the Commission and other tasks entrusted to the Executive Secretary by the Commission and its Rules of Procedure .
Financial provisions for the Commission
1. The Commission shall adopt its Financial Rul'is.
2. The Commission shall adopt an annual or biennial budget of proposed expenditures and budget estimates for the fiscal period following thereafter.
3. The total amount of the budget, including any sup­ plementary budget adopted by the Commission, shall be contributed by the Contracting Parties in equal parts, unless the Commission unanimously decides otherwise .
4. Each Contracting Party shall pay the expenses related to the participation in the Commission of its rep­ resentatives, experts and advisers.
Sdentine and technological co-operation
1. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other interna­ tional organizations , to co-operate in the fields of science , technology and other research, and to exchange data as well as other scientific information for the puiposes of the present Convention.
2. Without prejudice to Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Ar­ ticle 4 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties undertake directly, "or when appropiiate through com­ petent regional or other international organizations, to promote studies , untertake , support or contribute to prog­ rammes aimed at developing -ways and means for the
 • assessment of the nature and extent of pollution, path­ ways , exposures , risks and remedies in the Bailie Sea Area, and particularly to develop alternative methods of treatment, disposal and elimination of such matter and substances that are likely to cause pollution of the ma­ rine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
3. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other inter­ national organizations , and , on the basis of the informa­ tion and data acquired pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, to co-operate in developing inter-com- parable observation methods, in performing baseline studios and in establishing complementary or joint prog­ ramme:; for monitoring.
4. The organization and scope of work connected with the implementation of tasks referred to in the preceding Paragraphs should primarily be outlined by.the Com­ mission.
Article. 17 Responsibility for damage
The Contracting Parties undertake, as soon as pos­ sible, jointly to develop and accept rules concerning responsibility for damage resulting from acts or omis­ sions in contravention of the present Convention, includ­ ing , inter alia , limits of responsibility , criteria and proce­ dures for the determination of liability and available remedies.
Article 18 Seulement of disputes
1. In case of a dispute between Contracting Parties
as to the interpretation or application of the present Con­
vention , they should seek a solution by negotiation . If the
Parties concerned cannot reach agreement they should
seek the good offices of or jointly request the mediation
unable to agree on measures as described above, such tion tribunal, or to the International Court of Justice.
Article 19 Safeguard of certain freedoms
Nothing in the present Convention shall be construed as infringing upon the freedom of navigation, fishing, marine scientific research and other legitimate uses of the high, seas, as well as upon the right of innocent pas­ sage through the territorial sea.
Article 20 Status of Annexes
The Annexes attached to the present Convention form an integral p.irt of the Convention.
Relation to other Conventions
The provisions of the present Convention shall be wi'hovt prejudice to the rights and obligations of the
 Contracting Parties under treaties concluded previously as well as under treaties which may be concluded in the .'utuie, furthering and developing the general principles of the Law of the Sea that the present Convention is based upon and in . particular provisions concerning the prevention of pollution of the marine environment.
v Révision of the Convention
A conference for the purpose of a general revision of - Mit Zustimmung der Vertragsparteien oder auf Er­ the present Convention may be convened with the con­ suchen der Kommission kann eine Konferenz zur allge­
sent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the
Amendments to the Articles of the Convention
1. Each Contracting Party may propose amendments to the Articles of the present Convention. Any such pro­ posed amendment shall be submitted to the Depositary Government and communicated by it to all Contracting Parties, which shall inform the Depositary Government of either their acceptance or rejection of the amendment as soon as possible after the receipt of the communica­ tion.
The amendment shall enter into force ninety days after the Depositary Government has received notifications of acceptance of that amendment from all Contracting Par­ ties.
2. With the consent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission a conference may be con­ vened for the purpose of amending the present Conven­ tion.
Amendments to the Annexes and the adoption of Annexes
1. Any amendment to the Annexes proposed by a Con­ tracting Party shall be communicated to the other Con­ tracting Parties by the Depositary Government and con­ sidered in the Commission. If adopted by the Commis­ sion, the amendment shall be communicated to the Con­ tracting Parties and recommended for acceptance.
2. Such amendment shall be deemed to have been ac­ cepted at the end of a period determined by the Com­ mission unless within that period anyone of the Con­ tracting Parties has objected to the amendment. The ac­ cepted amendment shall enter into force on a date deter­ mined by the Commission.
The period determined by the Commission shall be pro­ longed for an additional period of six months and the date of entry into force of the amendment postponed accordingly, if, in exceptional cases, any Contracting Party before the expiring of the period determined by the Commission informs the Depositary Government , that, although it intends to accept the proposal, the con­ stitutional requirements for such an acceptance are not yet fulfilled in its State.
3. An Annex to the present Convention may be adopted in accordance with the provisions of this Ar­ ticle.
4. The Depositary Government shall inform all Con­ tracting Parties of any amendments or the adoption of a new Annex which enter into force under this Article and of the dale on which such amendment or new An­ nex enters into forc6.
■ 5. Any objection under this Article shall be made by notification in writing to the Depositary Government
 which shall nolifv all Contracting Parties and the Ex­ notifiziert allen Vertragsparteien und dem Exekuliv-
ecutive Secretary of any such notification and the date of its receipt.
1. The provisions of the present Convention shall not be subject lo reservations.
2. The provision of Paragraph 1 of this Article does not prevent a Contracting Party from suspending for a period not exceeding one year the application of an Annex of the present Convention or part thereof or an amendment thereto nller the Annex in question or the amendment thereto has entered into force.
3. If after the entry into force of the present Conven­ tion a Contracting Parly invokes the provisions of Para­ graph 2 of this Article it shall inform the other Contract­ ing Parties, at the time of the adoption by the Commis­ sion of an amendment to an Annex-or a new Annex, of those provisions which will be suspended in accordance with Paragraph 2 of this Article. *
Signature, ratificano», approvai, and accession
1. The present Convention shall be open for signature
in Helsinki on 22 March 1974 by the Baltic Sea States
participating in the Diplomatic Conference on the Protec­
tion of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area,
held in Helsinki from 18 to 22 March 1974. The present
Convention shall be open for accession to any other nommen haben. Dieses Ubereinkommen liegt für jeden State interested in fulfilling the aims and purposes of the anderen Staat zum Beitritt auf, der an der Verwirk­ present Convention, provided that this Sta]e is invited lichung der Ziele und Zwecke des Ubereinkommens
by all the Contracting Parties.
2. The present Convention shall be subject to ratifica­ tion or approval by the States which have signed it.
3. The instruments of ratification, approval, or acces­ sion shall be deposited with the Government of Finland,
Entry into force
The present Convention shall enter into force two months aftef the deposit of the ^ seventh instrument of ratification or approval.
Article 28 Withrirawal
1. At any time, after the expiry of five years from the
date of entry into force of the present Convention any
Contracting Party may, by giving written notification to
the Depositary Government, withdraw from the present jederzeit von dem Ubereinkommen zurücktreten. Der Convention. The withdrawal shall take effect for such
Contracting Party on the thirty-first day of December of the year which follows the year in which the Depositary Government was notified of the withdrawal.
2. In case of notification of withdrawal by a Contract­ considering the effect of the withdrawal.
The present Convention has been drawn up in a single copy in the English language. Official translations into
ish languages shall be prepared and deposiled with the signed original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipoten­
DONE AT HELSINKI, this twenty-second day of March' . GESCHEHEN ZU HELSINKI am 22. März 1974 one thousand nine hundred and seventy-four.
 its derivatives DDE and DDD.
2. PCB's (polychlorinated biphenyls).
The protection of the Baltic Sea Area from pollution
by the substances listed below can involve the use of
appropriate technical means, prohibitions and regulations geeignete technische Maßnahmen, durch Verbote und of the transport, trade, handling, application, and final Vorschriften über Beförderung, Handel, Handhabung, An­
 Noxious Substances and Materials
The following substances and materials are listed for the purposes of Article 6 of the present Convention.
The list ist valid for substances and materials intro­
duced as waterbome into the marine environment. The
A For urgent consideration . A 1. Mercury, cadmium, and their compounds. 1.
and their compounds, as well as elemental phos­ phorus.
3. Phenols and their derivatives. * 3. 4. Phthalic acid and its derivatives. 4. 5. Cyanides. 5. 6.. Persistent halogenatcd hydrocarbons. 6.
7. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and their deriva­ 7.
8. Persistent toxic organosilicic compounds. 8.
9. Persistent pesticides, including organophosphoric and 9. organostannic pesticides, herbicides, slimicides and chemicals used for the preservation of wood, timber, wood pulp, cellulose, paper, hides and'textiles, hot covered by the provisions of Annex I of the present" Convention.
practicable means to prevent harmful substances and materials from being introduced as airborne into the Baltic Sea Area.
11. Acids, alkalis and surface active agents in high concentrations or big quantities.
12. Oil and wastes of petrochemical and other industries containing lipid-soluble substances.
13. Substances having adverse effects an the taste and/ or smell of products for .human consumption from the sea, or effects on taste, smell, colour, transparency or other characteristics of the water seriously reduc­ ing its amenity values.
14. Materials and substances which may float, remain
in suspension 'or sink , aud which may seriously inter­ fere with any legitimate use of the sea.
15. Lignin substances contained in industrial waste wat­ ers.
1G. The chelators EDTA (ethylenedinitrilotetraacetic acid or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) and DTPA (die- thylenetrianiinopenlaacetic acid).
 Goals, Criteria and Measures concerning the Prevention ol Land-Based Pollution
In accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties shall endeav­ our to attain the goals and apply the criteria . and measures enumerated in this Annex in order to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area. .
1. Municipal sewage shall be treated in an appropriate ■way so that the amount of organic matter does not cause harmful changes in the oxygen content of the Baltic Sea Area and the amount of nutrients does not cause harmful eutrophication of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Municipal sewage shall also be treated in an ap­ propriate. way to ensure-that the hygienic quality, and in particular epidemiological and toxicological.safety, of the receiving sea area is maintained at a level which does not cause harm to human health, and in a way that under the given composition of the sewage no significant amount of such harmful substances as are listed in An­ nexes I and II of the present Convention is formed.
3. The polluting load of industrial wastes shall be minimized in an appropriate way in order to reduce the amount of harmful substances, organic matter and nutrients.
re-use of processing water, developing of water economy and improvement of qualifications for water treatment. In the treatment of waste water mechanical, chemical, biological and other measures, according to the quality of the waste water, and as required to maintain or im­ prove the quality of the recipient water, shall be applied.
5. The discharge of cooling water from nuclear power plants or other kinds of industries using large amounts of water shall be effected in a way which minimizes the pollution of the marine environment Of the Baltic Sea Area.
4. The means referred to in Paragraph 3 of this Annex shall in particular include minimization of production
6. The Commission will define pollution control criteria, objectives for reduction of pollution and objectives con­
 Prevention of Pollution from Ships Regulation 1
The Contracting Parlies shall as appropriate co-operate and assist each other in initiating action by the Inter- Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization to develop :
a) international rules for navigation of deep draught ships in narrow and shallow waters in international waters of the Baltic Sea Area and in the entrances
to the Baltic Sea for the prevention of collisions, strandings and groundings;
b) an international radio reporting system for large ships en route within the Baltic Sea Area as well as for
/ships carrying a significant amount of a harmful substance .
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, as appropriate assist each other in investigating viola­ tions of the existing legislation on antipollution meas­ ures, which have occurred or are suspected to have occurred within the Baltic Sea Area. This assistance may include but is not limited to inspection by the competent authorities of oil record books, cargo record books, log books and engine log books and taking oil samples for analytical identification purposes and in respect of the system of tagging oil residues.
For the purposes of this Annex :
1. "Ship" means a vessel of any type whatsoever operat­ ing in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag ofc.any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms- engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal State concerned.
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances , means any release howsoever caused from a ship and includes
any escape , disposal , spilling , emitting or emptying ;
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution
by Dumping*of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1072; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , . exploitation and asso-
 ciated off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral resources! or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
4. "Nearest land". The term "from the nearest land"
means from the baseline from which the territorial sea
of the territory in question is established in accord­ ance with international law.
5. The term "jurisdiction" shall be interpreted in accord­ ance with international law in force at the time of application or interpretation of this Annex.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1 Januafy 1977 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on methods /or the prevention of pollution by oil -from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
"Oil" means petroleum in any form including crude oil, .fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products (other than petrochemicals which are subject to the provisions of Regulation 5 of this Annex) and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing* includes the substances listed in Appendix I to this An'nex. *"
"Oily mixture" means a mixture with any oil content.
"Oil fuel" means any oil used as fuel in connection with the propulsion and auxiliary machinery of the ship in which such oil is carried.
primarily to carry oil in bulk in its cargo spaces and includes combination carriers and .any "chemical tanker" as defined in Regulation 5 of this Annex when it is carrying a cargo or part cargo of oil in bulk.
5. "Combination carrier" means a ship designed to carry either oil or solid cargoes in bulk.
6. "Clean ballast* means the ballast in a tank which 6. Der Ausdruck .sauberer Ballast" bezeichnet den
since oil was last carried therein has been so cleaned that effluent therefrom if it were discharged from a
ship which is stationary into clean calm water on a clear day would not produce visible traces of oil on the surface of the water or on adjoining shore lines or cause a sludge or emulsion , to be deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining shore lines. If the ballast is discharged through an oil dischaige monitoring and control system approved by the Administration, evidence based on such a system to the effect that the oil content of the effluent did not exceed 15 parts per million shall be determinative that the bnllafet was clean, notwithstanding the presence of visible traces.
 7. 'Segregated ballast* means the ballast water intro­ duced into a tank which is completely separated from the, cargo oil and oil fuel system and which is permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious substances as variously defined in the Regula­ tions of this Annex.
B Control of Discharge of Oil
1. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures from any oil tanker and-any ship of 400 tons gross tonnage and above other than an oil tanker shall
be prohibited, while in the Baltic Se
b) such ships retain on board all and tank washing reception facilities.
while in the Baltic Sea Area shall oil drainage and sludge, dirty ballast waters and discharge them only to
2. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this
mixtures from a ship of less than 400 tons gross tonnage, other than an oil tanker, shall be prohibited while in the Baltic Sea Area, except when the oil content of the effluent without dilution does not exceed 15 parts per million or alternatively when all of the following condi­ tions are satisfied:
(i) the ship is proceeding en route;
(ii) the oil content of the effluent is less than 100 parts per million; and
(iii) the discharge is made as far as practicable from the land, but in no case less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land ; *
b) no discharge into the sea shall contain chemicals or other substances in quantities or concentrations which are hazardous to the marine environment or chemicals
or other substances introduced for the purpose of circum­
4. Whenever visible traces of oil are observed -on or
below the surface of the water in the immediate vicinity
of a ship or its wake , the Contracting Parties should , to
the extent they are reasonably able to do so, promptly parteien, soweit dies zumutbar und möglich ist, um­ investigate the facts bearing on the issue of whether gehend die mit der Frage, ob ein Verstoß gegen diese there has been. a. violation of the provisions of this Regel vorliegt, zusammenhängenden Tatsachen unter­
c) the oil residues which cannot be discharged into the sea in compliance with Sub-Paragraph 2a) of this Paragraph shall be retained on board or discharged to reception facilities.
3. The provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to the discharge of clean or segregated ballast.
Regulation. The investigation should include, in particu­ lar, the wind and sea conditions, the track and speed of the ship, other possible sources of the visible traces in the vicinity, and any relevant oil discharge records.
Paragraph B of this Regulation shall not apply to:
resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment:
provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted tither \vi!l< intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or
c) the discharge into the - -sea of substances containing oil, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution in­ cidents in order to minimize the damage from pollu­ tion. Any such discharge shall be subject to the approval of any Contracting Party in whose jurisdic­ tion it is contemplated the discharge will occur.
ft Special Requirements for Drilling Rigs and other Platfojrms
Fixed and floating drilling rigs when engaged in the exploration , exploitation and associated offshore process­ ing of sea-bed mineral resources and other platforms shall "comply with the requirements of this Regulation applicable to ships of 400 tons gross tonnage and above Other than oil tankers, except that:
3) they shall keep a record of all operations involving oil or oily mixture discharges, in a form approved by the Administration ; and
b) subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, the discharge into the seef of oil or oily mixtures shall be prohibited except "when the oil content of the discharge without dilution docs not exceed 15 parts per million.
H Reception Facilities of the Baltic Sea Area
The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure that not later than 1 January 1977 all oil loading terminals and repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area are provided with facilities adequate for the reception and treatment of all the dirty ballast and tank washing waters from . oil tankers. In addition all ports, of the area shall be provided with adequate reception facilities for other residues and oily mixtures from all ships. Such facilities shall have adequate capacity to meet the needs of the ships using them without causing undue delay.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible, but not later than 1 January 1977 or at a date not later than one year after the date of the entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, decide upon a date from which the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on the discharge of noxious liquid substances in bulk from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area shall apply.
For the purpores of this Regulation:
" Chemical tanker " means a ship
constructed or
adapted primarily to raYry a cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk and includes an "oil tanker" as
 defined in Regulation 4 of this Annex when carrying a cargo or part cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk . -
2. 'Clean ballast" means ballast carried in a tank which, since it was last used to carry a cargo containing a substance in Category A, B, C, or D has been thor­ oughly cleaned and the residues resulting therefrom have been discharged and the tank emptied in accord­ ance with the appropriate requirements of this Regula­ tion.
3. "Segregated ballast" means ballast -water introduced into a lank permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious liquid substances as variously defined in the Regulations of this Annex, and which is completely separated from the cargo and oil fuel system .
4. "Liquid substances" are those having a vapour pres­ sure not exceeding 2.8 kp/cm! at a temperature of 37.8 °C.
designated in Appendix III to this Annex or provi­ sionally ' assessed under the provisions of Sub-Para­ graph 4 of Paragraph 6 of this Regulation as falling into Category A, B, C, or D;
B Categorization and Listing of Noxious Liquid Substances
1. For the purposes of this Regulation noxious liquid substances shall be divided into four categories as fol­ lows:
a) Category A – noxious liquid substances .which if
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a major hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause
serious harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of stringent anti-pollution measures ;
b) Category B – noxious liquid substances which if b) Gruppe B – schädliche flüssige Stoffe, die, wenn sie
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal- Jasling operations would present a hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of special anti-pollu­ tion measures;
c) Category C – noxious liquid substances which if c) Gruppe C r- schädliche flüssige Stoffe, die, wenn sie
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a minor hazard to cither marine , resources or human health or cause minor harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore require special operational conditions ;
d) Category D – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a recognizable hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause minimal harm to amenities or other legiti­
mate uses of the sea . and therefore require attention in operatiflnal conditions.
some
 2. Guidelines for use in the categorization of noxious liquid substances are given in Appendix II to this Annex.
3. The list of noxious liquid substances carried in bulk and presently categorized which are subject to the provi­ sions of this Regulation is set out in Appendix III to this Annex.
4. Where it is proposed to carry a liquid substance in
bulk which has not been categorized under Sub-Para­
graph 1 ot this Paragraph or 'evaluated as referred to in
Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph C of this Regulation the
Contracting Parties involved in the proposed operation beteiligten Vertragsparteien einvernehmlich eine vor­ shall establish and agree on a provisional assessment for
the proposed operation on the basis of the guidelines referred to in Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph. Until full agreement between the Governments involved has been reached, the substance shall be carried under the most severe conditions proposed.
1. The substances listed- in Appendix IV to this Annex have been evaluated and found to fall outside the Categories A, B, C, and D, as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph B of this Regulation because they are presently considered to present no harm to human health, marine resources, amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea, when discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or deballasting operations.
2. The discharge of bilge or ballast water or other residues or mixtures containing only substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex shall not be subject to any requirement of this Regulation.
3. The discharge into the sea of cleafl ballast or ment of this Regulation.
D Discharge of Noxious Liquid Substances
Subject to the provisions of Paragraph E of this Regu­ lation :
1. The discharge into the sea of substances in Category A as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of Para­ graph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures c'ontaining such substances shall be prohibited. If tanks containing such substances or mixtures are to be washed, the resulting residues shall be discharged to a reception facility which the Contract­ ing Parties shall provide in accordance with Paragraph H of this Regulation, until the concentration of the sub­ stance in the effluent to such facility is at or below the residual concentration prescribed for that substance in column IV of Appendix III to this Annex and until the tank is empty. Provided that the residue then remaining in the tank is subsequently diluted by the addition of a volume of water of not less than 5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, it may be discharged into the sea v/hen all the following conditions are also satisfied:
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a -speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled .ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled;
b) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account the location of the seawater intakes;
and .
12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not '-jss than 25 metres.
 2. The discharge into the sea of substances in (2) Das Hinleiten ins Meer von Stoffen der Gruppe B Category B as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of Para­ im Sinne des Abschnitts B Absatz 1 Buchstabe b oder
graph B of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank wa.hings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited except when all the following condi­ tions are satisfied:
a) the tank has been washed after unloading with a volume of water of not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, and the resulting residues have been discharged to a reception facility until the tank is empty;
b) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of. ships which are not self- propelled ;
washings are approved by the Administration and . shall ensure that the concentration and rate of dis­
charge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the wake astern of the ship .does not exceed 1 part per million ;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, rtaking into account the location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not less than 25 metres.
3. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate­
gory C as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Paragraph B
of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as
such or ballast watei, tank washings, or other residues Ballastwasser, Tankwaschwasser oder sonstigen Rück­ or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro­ ständen oder Gemischen, die solche Stoffe enthalten, ist hibited except when all the following conditions are
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are no' self- - propelled ;
approved by the Administration and shall e'.sure that the concentration and rate of discharge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the
wake astern of the ship does not exceed 1 part per million ;
c) the maximum quantity of cargo discharged from each c) die Höchstmenge der aus jedem Tank und dem dazu­
tank and its associated piping system does Hot exceed the maximum quantity approved in accordance with the procedures referred to in Sub-Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph which shall in no case exceed the greater of 1 cubic metre or 1/3.000 of the tank capac­ ity in cubic metres ;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account thfe location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth
. of water of not less than 25 metres.
4. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate- gory D as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Paragraph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro- hibited except when all the following conditions are satisfied: •
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least
7 knots in the case?of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled ; • *
12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
5. Ventilation procedures approved by the Administra­ tion may be used to remove cargo residues from a tank. If subsequent washing of the tank is necessary, the discharge into the sea of the resulting tank washings shall be made in accordance with Sub-Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, or 4 of this Paragraph, whichever is applicable.
6. The discharge into the sea of substances which have not been categorized , provisionally assessed , or evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Para­ graph C of this Regulation, or of ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited.
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall not apply to:
the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances resulting from
. damage to a ship or its equipment:
(i) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge ; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted either with intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or '
c) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution incidents in order to minimize the damage from pollution. Any such dis­ charge shall be subject to the approval of any Con­ tracting Party in whose jurisdiction it is contemplated
. the discharge will occur.
F Measures of Control
1. The Contracting Parties shall appoint or authorize surveyors for the purpose of implementing this Para­ graph .
2. a) If a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pump­ ing or transfer operation carried out in connection with that tank shall also be entered in the' Cargo Record Book.
3. If the tank is to be washed:
a) the effluent from the tank washing operation shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility at least until the concentration of the substance in the
discharge, as indicated by analyses of samples of the effluent taken by the surveyor, has fallen to the residual concentration specified for that substance In Appendix III to U. s Annex. Whc.i the required re-
 sidual concentration has been achieved , remaining ' tank washings shall continue to be discharged to the reception facility until the tank is empty. Appropriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo
Record Book and certified by the surveyor; and
b) after diluting the residue then remaining in the tank with at least 5 per cent of the tank capacity of water, this mixture may be discharged into the sea in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Sub-Paragraphs 1 a),
~b), and c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. Ap­ propriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
4. Where the Government of the receiving Party is satisfied that it is impracticable to measure the concen­ tration of the substance in the effluent without causing undue delay to the ship, that Party may accept an alternative procedure as being equivalent to Sub-Para­ graph 3 a) of this Paragraph provided that:
a) a precleaning procedure for that tank and thatsub- • stance is approved by the Administration and that Party is satisfied that such procedure will fulfil the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph D of this Regulation with respect to the attainment of the
b) a surveyor duly authorized by that Party shall certify in the Cargo Record Book that:
\(i) the tank, its pump and piping system have been , emptied, and that the quantity of cargo remaining in the tank is at or below the quantity on which the approved precleaning procedure referred to in Sub-Paragraph (ii) of this Sub-Paragraph has
been based ;
(ii) precleaning has been carried out in accordance with the precleaning procedure approved by the Administration for that tank and that substance; and
(iii) the tank washings resulting from such preclean-. ing have been discharged to a reception facility and the tank is empty;
c) the discharge into the sea of any remaining residues shall . be in accordance with the provisions ojf Sub- Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may-..be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Category B substance, ensure compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pumping or transfer operation carried out in connection with that tank shall also be entered in the Cargo Record Book ;
c) if the tank is to be washed, the effluent from the tank washing operation, which shall contain a volume of water not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility until the tank, its pump and piping system are empty. An appropriate entry shall be mode in the Cargo Record Book;
d) if the tank is to be farther cleaned and emptied at sea, the Master shall:
 (i) ensure that the approved procedures referred to . in Sub-Paragraph 2 cl of Paragraph D of this Regu­ lation are complied with and 'that the appropriate entries are made in the Cargo Record Book: and
(ii) ensure that any discharge into the sea. is made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Para­ graph 2 of Paragraph D of this Regulation and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book ;
e) if after unloading a Category B substance, any res­ idues of tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the Baltic Sea Area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
6. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the
authorized or appointed surveyor as may be deemed
necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship
compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not ■ cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
b) .if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
. (ii) the quantity of substance remaining in the tank shall not exceed the maximum quantity which may be discharged into the sea for that sub­ stance under Sub-Paragraph 3 c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. An appropriate efltry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; !
(iii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea the approved procedures shall be complied with, and the necessary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An ap­ propriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(iv) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(v) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 3 of "Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
(i) the tank- washings shall be discharged to a recep­
tion facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location and disposition of the tank washings;
if after unloading a Category C substance within the Baltic Sea Area, any residues or tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
7. The Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Cate­ gory D substance, ensure compliance with the following:
 a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
(ii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea, the neces­ sary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An appro­ priate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
(iii) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(iv) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 4 of "Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
c) if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
– (i) the tank washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion- facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location
- and disposition of the tank washings.
Discharge irom a Slop Tank
8. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank,
including those from pump room bilges, which contain a
Category A or a Category B substance, shall be dis­
charged to a reception facility in accordance with the
entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
a Category C substance in excess of the aggregate of the
maximum quantities specified in Sub-Paragraph 3c) of
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall be discharged to a
1. Every ship to which this Regulation applies shall be provided with a Cargo Record Book, whether as part of the ship 's official log book or otherwise , in the form specified in Appendix V to this Annex.
2. The . Cargo Record Book shall be completed, on a tank-to-tank basis, whenever any of the following opera­ tions with respect to a noxious liquid substance takes place in the ship:
(i) loading of cargo ;
(ii) unloading of cargo; •
(iii) transfer of cargo;
(iv) transfer of cargo, cargo residues or mixtures con­
taining cargo to a slop tank ; clcaning of cargo tanks ; transfer from slop lanks ; ballasting of cargo tanks ; transfer of dirty ballast water ;
(ix) discharge into the sea in accordance with Para­ graph 1) of this Regulation.
 • 3. In the event of any discharge of the kind referred to in Annex VI of the present Convention and Para­ graph E of this Regulation of any noxious liquid sub­ stance or mixture containing such substance, whether intentional or accidental, an entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book stating the circumstances of,- and the reason for, the discharge.
4. When a surveyor appointed or outhori/.ed by a Contracting Party to supervise any operations under this Regulation has inspected a ship, then that surveyor shall make an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Each operation referred to in Sub-Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Paragraph shall be fully recorded without delay in the Cargo Record Book so that all the entries in the Book appropriate to that operation are completed. Each entry shall be signed by the officer or officers in charge of the operation concerned and , when the ship is manned , each page shall be signed by the Master of 'the ship. The entries in the Cargo Record Book shall be in an official language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly, and, except when the ship is engaged in domestic voyages , in English or French . The entries in an official national language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly shall prevail in case of a dispute or discrepancy.
6. The Cargo Record Book shall be kept in such a place as to' be readily available for inspection and, except in the case of unmanned ships under tow, shall be kept on board the ship. It shall be retained for a period of two years after the last entry has been made.
7. The competent authority of a Contracting Party may
inspect the Cargo Record Book on board any ship to Jcann das Ladungstagebuch an Bord jedes Schiffes, für
which this Regulation applies while the ship is in its port,
and may make a copy of any entry in that Book and may
require the Master of the ship to certify that the copy
is a true copy of such entry. Any copy so made which
has been certified by the Master of the ship as a true
copy of an entry in the ship's Cargo Record Book shall
be made admissible in any judicial proceedings as
evidence of the facts stated in the entry. The inspection
of a Cargo Record Book and the taking of a certified
copy by the competent authority under this Paragraph
shall be performed as expeditiously as possible without ■ dieses Abschnitts sind so schnell wie möglich und ohne
causing the ship to be unduly delayed.
1. The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure "the provision of reception facilities according to the needs of ships using their ports, terminals or repair ports of the Bailie Sea Area a$ follows:
a) cargo loading, and unloading ports and terminals shall have facilities adequate for reception without undue delay to ships of such residues and mixtures con­ taining noxious liquid substances as would remain for disposal from ships carrying them as a conse­ quence of the application of this Reguletion; and
b) ship repair ports undertaking repairs to chemical tan­ b) Schiffsreparaturhäfen, die Reparaturen an Chemika-
kers shall have facilities adequate for the reception of residues and mixtures containing noxious liquid substances.
2. Each Contracting Party shall determine the types of facilities provided fcr the purpose of Sub-Paragraph 1
poits, terminals and ship repair ports of the Baltic Sea" Al\:ci .
Harmful substances In packaged forms
A. The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible apply suitable uniform rules for the carriage of harmful substances in packaged forms or in freight containers, portable tanks or road and rail tank wagons.
B. With respect to certain harmful substances, as may be designated by the Commission, the Master or owner of the ship or his representative shall notify the appro­ priate port authority of the intent to load or unload such substances at least 24 hours prior to such action.
C. A report of an incident involving harmful sub­ stances shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex VI of the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on discharge of sewage ships while operating in the Baltic Sea rArea.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
"New ship* means a ship:
a) for which the building contract is placed, or in the absence of a building contract, the keel of which is laid, or which is at a similar stage of construc­ tion, on or after the date of entry into force of the present Convention; or
b) the delivery of which is three years or more after the date of entry into force of the present Conven­ tion.
"Existing ship" means a ship which is not a new ship.
a) drainage and other wastes from any form of toilets, urinals, and WC scuppers;
b) drainage from medical premises (dispensary, sick bay, etc.) via wash basins, wash tubs and scuppers located in such premises;
c) drainage from spaces containing living animals; or
d) other waste waters when mixed with the drainages defined above.
" Holding tank " means and storage of sewage.
used for the
1. The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to:
a) new ships certified to carry more than 100 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1977;
b) existing ships certified to carry more than 400 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1978; and
and (iii), from dales decided by the Contracting Par­ ties on recommendation by the Commission :
(i) ships of 200 tons "gross tonnage and above;
 (ii) ships of less: than 200 tons gross tonnage which arc certified to carry more than 10 persons ;
(iii) ships which do not hdvc a measured gross ton­ nage and arc certified to carry more than 10 per­ sons.
fn the case of new such ships the date shall be not later than 1 January 1979. In the case of existing such ships the date shall be not later than ten years after the date decided for new ships.
2. A Contracting Party may, if it is satisfied that the application of the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of this Paragraph with respect to a certain ship would necessi­ tate constructional alterations which would be unreason­ able, exempt the ship from the application until a date not later than ten years after the date of entry into force of the present Convention.
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph D of this Regulation, the discharge of sewage into the sea is pro­ hibited, except when:
a) the ship is discharging comminuted and disinfected sewage using a system approved by the Administra­ tion at a distance of more , than 4 nautical miles from the nearest land, or sewage which is not comminuted or disinfected at a distance of more than 12 nautical
miles from the nearest land, provided that in any case the sewage that has been stored in holding tanks shall not be discharged instantaneously but at a moderate rate when the ship is en route and proceeding at not less than 4 knots : or
b) the ship has in operation a sewage treatment plant which has been approved by the Administration, and
(i) the test results of the plant are laid down in a document carried by the ship;
(ii) additionally, the effluent shall not produce visible floating solids in, nor cause discolouration of the surrounding water; or
c) the ship is situated in the waters under the jurisdic­ tion of a State and is discharging sewage in accord­ ance with such less stringent requirements as may be imposed by such State.
2. When the sewage is mixed with wastes of waste water having different discharge requirements, the.more stringent requirements shall apply.
Paragraph C of.this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the discharge of sewage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea,- or
b) the discharge of sewage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment if all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the discharge.
1. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the
provision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the
of the ships using them .
2. To enable pipes of reception facilities to be con­ nected with the ship's discharge pipeline, both lines shall be fitted with a standard discharge connection in accord­ ance with the following table :
Standard Dimensions ol Flanges lot Discharge Connections
Slo.ts in flange
Flange thickness
Bolts and nuts: quantity and diameter
According to pipe outside diameter
equidisfantly placed on a bolt circle of the above diameter, slotted to the flange periphery. The slot width to be 18 mm
4, earn of 16 mm in diam­ eter and of suitable length
The flange is designed to accept pipes up to a maxi­ mum internal diameter of 100 mm and shall be of steel or other equivalent material having a flat face. This flange, together with a suitable gasket, shall be suitable for a service pressure of 6 kg/cm!.
For ships having a moulded depth of 5 metres and less the inner diameter of the discharge connection may b« 38 millimetres.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but
into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on the disposal of garbage from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
"Garbage" means .i" kinds of victual, domestic and
operational waste excluding fresh fish and parts thereof,
liable to be disposed of continuously or periodically ex - cept those substance^which are defined or listed in other Regulations of this Annex.
 B Disposai of Garbage
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs C and D of this Regulation:
a) disposal into the sea of the following is prohibited:
(i) all plastics, including but not limited to synthetic . ropes, synthetic fishing nets and plastic garbage bags; and
(ii) all other garbage, including paper products, rags, glass, metal, bottles, crockery, dunnage, lining and packing materials ;
b) disposal into the sea of food wastes shall be made as far as practicable from land, but in any case not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
2. When the garbage is mixed with other discharges having different disposal or discharge requirements the more stringent requirements shall apply.
C Special Requirement's for Fixed and FioatingPlatforms r
1. Subject to the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph, .the disposal of any materials regulated by this Regulation is prohibited from fixed or floating plat­ forms . engaged in the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral re­ sources, and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms.
2. The disposal into the sea of food wastes may be permitted when they have passed through a comminuter or grinder from such fixed or floating platforms' located more than 12 nautical miles from land and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms. Such comminuted or ground food wastes shall be capable of passing through a screen with openings no greater ■ than 25 millimetres.
Paragraphs B and C of this Regulation shall not apply to :
a) the disposal of garbage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or
b) the escape o°f garbage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment provided all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage, for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the escape; 6r •
c) the accidental loss of synthetic fishing nets or syn­ thetic material incidental to the repair of such nets, provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken to prevent such loss.
Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the pro­ vision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the Baltic Sea Area for the reception of garbage, without causing undue delay to ships, and according to the needs of the ships using them.
Aromatic Oil (excluding vegetable oil) Lubricating Oils and Blending
*) The list of ofls shall not necessarily be considered as comprehensive.
Appendix I List of Oils *)
Guidelines for the Categorization of Noxious Liquid Substances
Substances which are bioaccumulated and liable to
which are highly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a
Hazard Rating 4, defined by a TLm less than 1 ppm); and
additionally certain substances which are moderately
toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 3,
defined by a TLm of 1 or more, but loss than 10 ppm)
when particular weight is given to additional factors in
the hazard profile or to special characteristics Of the durch eine TLm von 1 oder mehr, aber weniger ais substance .
Substances which arc bioaccumulated with a short retention of the order of one week or less: or which are liable to produce tainting of the -sea food ; or which are moderately toxic to acquatic life (as expressed by a Haz­ ard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 ppm or more, but less than 10 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of 10 ppm or more, but less than 100 ppm) when particular weight is given to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics of the substance.
Substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as
expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of sind (ausgedrückt durch Gefahrenstufe 2, bezeichnet 10 or more, but less than 100 ppm); and additionally cer­ durch eine TLm von 10 oder mehr, aber weniger als tain substances which are practically non-toxic to aquatic 100 ppm ) sowie bestimmte Stoffe , die praktisch ungiftig life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a für Wasserpflanzen und -tiere sind (ausgedrückt durch TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than 1.000 ppm) when Gefahrenstufe 1, bezeichnet , durch eine TLm von . 100 particular weight is given to additional factors in the oder mehr, aber weniger als 1 000 ppm), Vrenn zusätz­ hazard profile or to special characteristics of the sub­ lichen Faktoren im Gefahrenprofil oder besonderen stance.
Substances which are practically non-tpxic to aquatic
life, (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a
TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than - 1.000 ppm); or
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD); or highly hazardous to human health, with an LD30 of less than 5 mg/kg; or produce moderate reduction of amenities because of persistency, smell or poisonous or irritant characteristics, possibly interfering with use of beaches; or moderately hazardous to human health, with an LD30 of 5 mg/kg or more, but less than 50 mg/kg and produce slight reduc­ tion of amenities.
Other Liquid Substances (for the purposes of Paragraph C of Regulation 5)
Substances other than those categorized in Cate­ gories A, B, C, and D above.
(Paragraph D (1) of
the Baltic Sea Area
Acetic anhydride Acetone
Acrylic acid *) Acrylonitnle Adiponitrile
Allvl alcohol .. Allyl chloride
Calcium hydroxide (solution) Camphor oil
List of Noxious Liquid Substances carried in Bulk
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
•) Asterisk indicates that tho substance has been provisionally included In this list an4 that further data are necessary In order to complete the evaluation of its envuonmoutal hazards, particularly in relation to living resources.
I II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Caustic potash (Potassium hydroxide)
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
para-Cymene (Isopropyltoluene) •) Decahydronaphthalene
Diisopropylamine I Diisopropyl ether ♦)
•) Asterisk indicates (hat the substance has been provisionally included in this list and that further data ore necessary in ordoi to complete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in relation to Ifving resources.
Ethylene chlorohydrin (2-Chloro-ethanol)
Hydrofluoric acid (40 °/o aqueous) Hydrogen peroxide (greater than 60 °/o) Isobutyl acrylate
Isobutyl methacrylate
Isopropyl cyclohexane
Methyl methacrylate
Pollution Category for oper- ■
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally included In this list and that further data are necessary In order to complete
the evaluation o( its environmental hazards, patUcularly in relation lo living resourv^s. 36
I II III IV VVithin
the Baltic Sea Area
Phthalic Anhydride (molten)
Propionic anhydride
n-Propylamine
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
Naphthenic acids *) .A 0.05
Π III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
*) Asterisk indicates that tho substance has been provisionally included in this list and thai further data arn necessary in order to complete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in relatfon to living resources.
Triethanolamine
Tritolvl phosphate (Tricresyl phosphate) *) Turpentine (wood)
Vinylidene chloride *) Xylenes (mixed isomers)
1 II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
•) Asterisk Indicates that the substance has been provisionally Included In this li«l and that further data are necessary Ih order to complete
the evaluation ol Us environmental hazards, particularly in relation to living resources. 38
Aminoathyl-athanolamin (Hydroxyathylathylen- diamin) *)
Ammoniak (28°/# wasserhaltig) iso-Amylacctat
Diàthylâther
Diäthylentriamin *) ; Diäthylenglycol-monoäthyläther
Dnsopropylâther *)
Dimethylamin (400/» wasserhaltig) Dimethylàthanolamin
(2-Dimelhylaminoathanol) *)
Äthylenglycol-monoäthyläther (Methylkolloidlôsung)
Isopropylamin Isopropylcyclohexan Isopren
Monomethylâthanolamin
Tnäthylarain Trimethylbenzol •) Tritolylphosphat •)
(Trikresylphosphat) Terpentin (Holz) Vinylacetat Vinylidenchlorid *) Xylole (Isomerengemisch)
Decyl octyl alcohol Dibutyl ether Diethanolamine Diethylene glycol Dipentene
Heptene (mixed isomers)
List of olher Liquid Substances . carried in Bulk
Dibutylother Diäthanolamin
Cargo Record Books lor Ships carrying Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk
Name of ship
Cargo carrying capacity of each tank in cubic metres
Voyage from
a) ' Loading of cargo
1. Date and place of loading .
2. Name and category of cargo(es) loaded
3. Identity of tank(s) loaded
b) Transfer of cargo
4. Date of transfer
5. Identity of tank(s) (i) From (ii To
7. If not, quantity remaining
c) Unloading of cargo
8. Date and place of unloading 9. Identity of tank(s) unloaded
11. If not, quantity remaining in tank(s)
12. Is (are) tank(s) to be cleaned? 13. Amount transferred to slop tank 14. Identity of slop tank ■
d) Ballasting of cargo tanks
15. Identity of tank(s) ballasted
16. Date and position of ship a't start ctf ballasting
e) Cleaning of cargo tanks Category A substances
17. Identity of tank(s) cleaned
18. Date and location of cleaning
19. Method(s) of cleaning
20. Location of reception facility used
21. Concentration of effluent when discharge to recep­ tion facility stopped
22. Quantity remaining in tank
23. Procedure and amount of water introduced into tank in final cleaning
24. Location, date of discharge into the sea
25. Procedure and^equipment used in discharge into the sea
Signature of Master 46
 Category B, C, and D substances
26. Washing procedure used
27. Quantity of water used
28. Date, location of discharge into the sea
29. Procedure and equipment used in discharge into the sea
f) Transfer of dirty ballast water
30. Idcntity of tank(s)
31. Date and position of ship at start of discharge into the sea
32. Date and position of.ship at finish of discharge into the sea
34. Quantity discharged into the sea
35. Quantity of polluted water transferred to slop tank(s) (identify slop'tanks(s))
36. Date and port of discharge*to reception facilities (if applicable)
g) Transfer from slop tank/disposal of residue
(c) Transferred to another (other) tank(s) (identify
(d) Other method
40. Date and port of disposal of residue
Accidental or other exceptional discharge
41 . Date and time of occurrence
42. Place or position of ship at time of occurrence
43. Approximate quantity, name an<ji category of substance
44. Circumstances of disdiarge or escape and general remarks.
Signature of Master
37. Identity of slop tank(s)
38. Quantity disposed from each tank 39. Methodofdisposalofresidue:
(b) Mixed with cargo
 a) issue special permits provided for in Regulation 1 of this Annex ;
b) keep records of the nature and quantities of matter permitted to be dumped and the location, time and method of dumping;
c) collect available information concerning the nature and quantities of matter that has been dumped in the Baltic Sea Area recently and up to the coming into force of the present Convention, provided that the
- dumped matter in question could be liable to cont­ aminate water or organisms in the Baltic: Sea Area, to be caught by fishing equipment, or otherwise to give rise to harm, and the location, time and method of such dumping.
2. The appropriate national" authority shall issue special permits in accordance with Regulation 1 of this Annex in respect of matter intended for dumping in the Baltic Sea Area:' "
a) loaded in its territory ;
Exceptions from the General Prohibition of Dumping of Waste and other Matter in the Baltic Sea Area
In accordance with Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the present Convention the prohibition of dumping shall not apply lo the disposal at sea of dredged spoils provided that:
1. they do not contain significant quantities and concen­ trations of substances to be defined by the Commis­ sion and listed in Annexes I and II of the present Con­ vention ; and
2. the dumping is carried out under a prior special permit given by the appropriate national authority, either
a) within the area of the territorial sea of the Con­ tracting Party; or
b) outside the area of the territorial sea, whenever necessary, after prior consultations in the Com­ mission.
When issuing such permits the Contracting Party shall comply with the provisions in Regulation 3 of this Annex.
1. The appropriate national authority referred to in
tory or flying its flag, when the leading occurs in the territory of a State not Party to the present Conven­ tion.
3. When issuing permits under Sub-Paragraph 1 a) above, the appropriate national authority shall comply with Regulation 3 of this Annex, together with such additional criteria, measures and requirements as they may consider relevant.
4. Each Contracting Party shall report to the Commis­ sion , and where appropriate to other Contracting Parties , the information specified in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regu­ lation 2 of this Annex. The procedure to be followed and the nature of such reports shail be determined by the Commission.
When issuing special permits according to Regulation 1 of this Annex the appropriate national authority shall take into account:
1. Quantity of dredged spoils to be dumped.
2. The content of the matter referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention.
3. Location (e.g. co-ordinates of the dumping area, depth and distance from coast) and its relation to areas of special interest (e.g. amenity areas, spawning, nursery and fishing areas, etc.).
4. Water characteristics, if dumping is carried out out­ side the territorial sea, consisting of:
a) hydrographic properties (e. g. temperature, salinity, density, profile);
b) chemical properties (e. g. pH, dissolved oxygen, nutrients); -
c) biological properties (e. g. primary production and benthic animals).
The data should include sufficient information on the annual mean levels and the seasonal variation of the properties mentioned in this Paragraph.
5. The existence and effects of other dumping which 5. Vorhandensein und Auswirkung sonstigen Einbrin-
may have been carried out in the dumping area.
Reports made in accordance with Paragraph -5 of,
Article 9 of the present Convention shall include the following information:
material, and counter measures taken:
a) location (e. g. co-ordinates of the accidental dump­ ing site , depth and distance from' the coast);
b) method of deposit;
.c) quantity and composition of dumped matter as well as its physical (e. g. solubility and density), chemi­ cal and biochemical * e. g. oxygen demand, nutrients), and biological properties... (e. g. presence
of viruses, bacteria, yeasts, parasites)
d) toxicity ;
e) content of the substances referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention ;
f) dispersal diaracteristics (e. g. effects of currents and wind, and horizontal transport and vertical mixing);
g) water characteristics (e.g. temperature, pH, redox conditions , salinity and stratification );
h) bottom diaracteristics (e. g. topogtaphy, geological characteristics and redox conditions);
J) counter measures taken and follow-up operations i) carried out or planned.
2. General considerations and conditions :
a) possible effects on amenities (e. g. floating or stranded material, turbidity, objectionable odour, discolouration and foaming); .
 b) possible effect on marine life, fish and shellfish culture, fish stocks and fisheries, seaweed harvest­ ing and cultures; and
c) possible effects on other uses of the sea (e.g. impairment of water quality for industrial use, underwater corrosion of structures, interference with ship operations from floating materials, inter­ ference with fishing or navigation and protection of areas of special importance for scientific or conservation purposes),,.
For the purposes of this Annex :
"Ship" means a vessel of any type whatsoever operating in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
"Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With
respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag of any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With
respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the -coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances, means any ' release howsoever caused from a ship and in­
eludes any escape , disposal , spilling , ing, emitting or emptying.
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated offshore processing of sea-bed mineral resources ; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
The Contracting Parlies undertake to maintain ability to combat spillages of oil and other harmful substances on the sea. This ability shall include adequate equip­ ment, ships and manpower prepared for operations in coastal waters as well as on the high sea.
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, devel­ op and apply, individually or in co-operation, surveillance activities covering the Baltic Sea Area ,. in order to spot and monitor oil and other harmful substances released into the sea.
In the case of loss overboard of harmful substances in packages, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons, tBe Contracting Parties shall co-operate in the salvage and recovery of such packages, containers
or tanks so as to minimize the danger to the environ­ ment.
1. The Contracting Parties shall develop ami apply a system for receiving, channeling and dispatching reports on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea, as well as any incident causing or likely to cause any kind of significant pollution.
2. The Contracting Parties shall request masters of ships and pilots of aircraft to report without delay in accordance with this system on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea. Such reports should as far as possible contain the following data : time , position , wind and sea conditions , and kind , extent and probable source of the spill observed.
3. The master of a ship involved in an incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation, or other person having charge of the ship, shall without delay and to the fullest extent possible report in accordance with this system and with the provisions of the Appfendix to the present Annex.
4. Each- Contracting Party undertakes to issue instruc­
tions to its maritime inspection vessels and aircraft and
to other appropriate services, to report to its authorities
any observation or incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of
this Regulation. Such reports shall as far as possible
contain the data referred to in Paragraphs 2 or 3 of this
Regulation respectively, as well as possible indications
on the spreading or drifting tendencies of the spill in
5. Whenever a Contracting Party is aware of a casualty or the presence of spillages of oil or other harmful substances in the Baltic Sea Area likely to constitute a serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area or the coast or related interests of any other Contracting Party, it shall without delay transmit all relevant information thereon to the Contracting Party which may be affected by the pollutant and, as regards ship casualty incidents, to the Administration of the ship involved .
- Each Contracting Party shall request masters of ships flying its flag to provide, in case of an incident, on re­ quest by the proper authorities, such detailed informa­ tion about the ship and its cargo which -is relevant to actions for preventing or combatting pollution of the sea, and to co-operate with these authorities.
1. a) The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible
agree bilaterally or multilaterally on those regions of the
Baltic Sea Area in which they will take action for
combatting or salvage activities whenever a significant
spillage of oil or other harmful substances or any in­
cidents causing or likely to cause pollution within the
Baltic Sea Area have occurred or are likely to occur.
Such agreements shall not prejudice any other agree­
ments concluded between Contracting Parties concerning
the same subject. The neighbouring States shall ensure
The Contracting Parties may ask the Commission for assistance to reach agreement, if needed. #
 b) The Contracting Party within whose region a situation as described in Regulation 1 of this Annex occurs shall make the necessary assessments of the situation and take adequate action in order to avoid or minimize subsequent pollution effects and shall keep drifting parts of the spillage under observation until no further action is called for.
2. In the case that such a spillage is drifting or is
likely to drift into a region, where another Contracting
Party should take action for purposes as defined in
Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of this Regulation, that Party shall die betreffende Vertragspartei unverzüglich über die without delay be informed of the situation and the Lage und die bereits getroffenen Maßnahmen unterrich­ actions that have been taken.
A Contracting Party requiring assistance for combatting
spillages of oil or other harmful substances, at sea is kämpfung treibender Felder von Dl oder sonstigen
entitled to call for assistance by other Contracting Parties, starting with those who seem likely also to be affected by the spillage. Contracting Parties called upon for assistance in accordance with this Regulation shall use their best endeavours to bring such assistance. .
1. The Contracting Parties shall provide information to the other Contracting Parties and the Commission about
a) their national organization for dealing with spillages at sea of oil and other harmful substances;
. b) . national regulations and other matters which have a direct bearing on combatting pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances; *
dispatching reports of pollution at sea by oil and other harmful svrbstances;
d) the competent authorities for dealing with questions concerning measures of mutual assistance, informa­ tion and co-operation between the Contracting Parties according to this Annex; j
e) . actions taken in accordance with Regulation 8 of this . e) die nach Regel 8 getroffenen Maßnahmen. Annex. _ , ..
2. The Contracting Parties shall exchange information of research and development programs and results' con­ cerning ways in which pollution by oil and other harmful substances at sea may be dealt with and experiences in combatting such pollution.
The authorities referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Regulation 9 of this Annex shall establish direct contact and co-operate in operational matters.
on Incidents Involving Harmful Substances
Duty to Report
1. The Master of a ship involved in an incident re­ ferred to in Regulation 3 of this Appendix, or other per­ son having charge of the ship, shall report the particulars of such incident without delay and to the fullest extent possible in accordance with the provisions of this Appendix .
2. In the event of the ship referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation being abandoned, or in the event of a report from such ship being incomplete or unobtainable, the owner, charterer, manager or operator of the ship, or their agents shall, to the fullest extent possible assume the obligations placed upon the Master under the provi­ sions of this Appendix.
1. Each report shall be made by radio whenever possible, but in any case by the fastest channels avail­ able at the time the report is made. Reports made by radio shall be given the highest possible priority.
2. Reports shall be directed to the appropriate officer
tion 9 of Annex VI of the- present Convention.
When to Make Reports
The report shall be made whenever an incident in­ volves :
a) a discharge other than as permitted under the present Convention; or
b) a discharge permitted under, the present Convention by virtue of the fact that:
(i) it is for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or 'saving life at sea ; or
(ii) it results from damage to the ship or its equip­ ment; or
c) a discharge of a harmful substance for the purpose of combatting s specific pollution incident or for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abate­ ment or control; or
d) the probability of a discharge referred to in Sub- d) Paragraph a), b), or c) of this Regulation. . .
Contents of Report .
a) the identity of ship;
b) the time and date of the occurrence of the incident;
c) the geographic position of the ship when the inciderft occurred ;
 -d) the wind end sea conditions prevailing at the time of - the incident; and
-c) relevant details respecting the condition of tlie ship.
2. Each report shall contain, in particular:
a) a clear indication or description of the harmful substances involved, including, if possible, the correct technical names of such substances (trade names should not be used in place of the correct technical names);
■ b) a statement or estimate of the quantities, concentra­ tions and likely conditions of harmful substances discharged or likely to be discharged into the sea;
c) where relevant, a description of the packaging and - identifying marks ; and
d) if possible the name of the consignor, consignee or manufacturer.
3. Each Teport shall clearly indicate whether the harm­ ful substance discharged, or likely to be discharged is oil, a noxious liquid substance, a noxious solid substance, ot-«a noxious gaseous substance and whether such substance was or is carried in bulk or contained in packaged form, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons.
4. Each report shall be supplemented as necessary by
of the report or which the person sending the report deems appropriate.
Supplementary Repo rt
Any person who is obliged under the provisions of this Appendix to send a report shall, when possible:
a) supplement the initial report, as necessary, with in- formation concerning further developments ; and
b) comply as fully as possible with requests from affect- ed States for additional information concerning the incident.
33. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment
of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit , which may be periodically reviewed , by the appropriate national authority."
"Article 6 - Principles and. obligations concerning land-based pollution 1. The Contracting Parties shall take all .appropriate measures to
control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area.
In particular , the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly lirait pollution by noxieus sub­ stances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention. To this end thejr shall, inter alia, as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines , standards or regulations concerning discharges , environmental quality and products containing such substances
and matenals and their use .
on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area
CONSCIOUS of the indispensable economic , social and cultural value-s of the marine environment of the
Baltic Sea Area and its living resources for the peoples
of the Contracting
BEARING in mind the exceptional hydrograph'ic and ecological characteristics of the Baltic Sea Area and the sensitivity of its living resources to changes in the environment;
NOTING the rapid development of human activities at the Baltic Sea Area, the considerable population living within its catchment area and -the highly urbanized and industrialized state of the Contracting Parties as well as'
their intensive agriculture and
NOTING with deep concern the increasing pollution
pipelines, dumping and normal operations of vessels as well as through airborne pollutants;
CONSCIOUS , of the responsibility of the Contracting Parties to protect and enhance the values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area for the benefit of their peoples ;
RECOGNIZING that the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of -the Baltic Sea Area are •
tasks that cannot effectively be accomplished by national efforts only but that also close regional co-operation and other appropriate international measures aiming at fulfil­ ling these tasks are urgently needed :
NOTING that the relevant recent international con­ ventions even after having entered inlo force for the respective Contracting Parties do not cover all special requirements to protect and enhance the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area ;
NOTING the importance of scientific and technologi­ cal co-operation in the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, particu­ larly between the Contracting Parties;
DESIRING to develop further regional co-operation in
of which were confirmed by the signing of the Conven­ durch die Unterzeichnung der Konven'isr. von 1073 über
tion on Fishing and Conservation o( the Living Resources
 CONSCIOUS of the importance of regional intergov­
ernmental co-operation in the protection of the marine
environment of the Battic Sea Area as an integral part of
For the purposes of the present Convention "the Baltic Sea Area" shall be the Baltic Sea proper with the Gulf of Bothnia, the Gulf of Finland and the entrance to the Baltic Sea bounded by the parallel of the Skaw in the Skagerrak at 57 ° 44' 8" N. It does not include internal waters of the Contracting Parties.
For the purposes of the present Convention:
1. "Pollution" means introduction by man, directly or • indirectly, of . substances or energy into the marine environment, including estuaries, resulting in such deleterious effects as hazard to human health, harm to living resources and marine life, hindrance to legiti­ mate uses of the sea including fishing, impairment of the quality for use of sea water, and reduction of
2. 'Land-based pollution" means pollution of the sea 2. Der Ausdruck .Verschmutzung' vom Land aus" be­
(i) any deliberate disposal at sea of wastes or other matter from vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;
(ii) any deliberate disposal at sea of vessels, air­ craft, platforms or other man^nade structures at sea;
"Dumping* does not include:
(i) the disposal at sea of wastes or other matter incidental to, or derived from the normal opera­ tions of vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-m'ade structures at sea and their equip­ ment, other than wastes or other matter trans­ ported by or to vessels, aircraft, platforms or
• other man-made structures at sea, operating for the purpose of disposal of such matter or de­ rived from the treatment of such wastes or
other matter on such vessels, aircraft, platforms or structures,-
(ii) placement of matter for a purpose, other than the mere disposal • thereof, provided that such
caused by discharges from land reaching the -sea waterborne, airborne or directly from the cdast, in­ cluding outfalls from pipelines;
 placement is not contrary to the aims of the present Convention;
4. "Vessels and aircraft* means waterborne or airborne craft of any type whatsoever. This expression includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft whether self-propelled or not, and fixed or floating platforms; * ■
5. "Oil" means petroleum in any form including crude oil, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products;
6. "Harmful substance" means any hazardous, noxious, or other substance, which, if introduced into the sea, is liable to cause pollution; '
probable discharge into the sea of harmful substance, or effluents containing such a substance.
Fundamental principles and obligations . •
1. The Contracting Parties shall individually or jointly
' relevant measures in order to prevent and abate pollu­ tion and to protect and enhance the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. The Contracting Parties shall use their best endeav­ Convention shall not cause an increase in the pollution
of sea areas outside the Baltic Sea Area.
1. The present Convention shall apply to the protec­
tion of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, Meeresumwelt des Ostseegebiels, welches das Wasser which comprises the water-body and the sea-bed includ­ und den Meeresgrund einschließlich ihrer lebenden
ing their living resources and other forms of marine life.
2. Without prejudice to the sovereign rights in regard to their territorial sea, each Contracting Party shall im­ plement the provisions of the present Convention within its territorial sea through its national authorities.
3-. While the provisions of the present Convention do
not apply to internal waters, which are under the sover­
undertake , without prejudice to their sovereign rights , to ensure that the purposes of the present Convention will be obtained in these waters.
4. The present Convention shall not apply to any
However , each Contracting Party shall ensure , by the adoption of appropriate measures not impairing the oper­ ations or operational capabilities of such ships and air­ craft owned or operated by it, that such ships and air­ craft act in a manner consistent, so far as is reasonable and practicable, with the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties undertakc to counteract the
speeified in Annex I of the present Convention.
Principles and obligations concerning . land-based pollution
1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollu­ tion by noxious substances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention. To this end they shall, inter alia, as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines, standards or regulations concerning dis­ charges, environmental quality, and products containing such substances and materials and their use.
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be. introduced into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit, which may be periodically reviewed, by the appropriate national au­ thority. ■
4. The appropriate national authority will inform the Commission referred to in Article 12 of the present Con­ vention of the quantity, quality and way of discharge if it considers that significant quantities of substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention were discharged.
5. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to establish and adopt common criteria for issuing permits for dis­ charges. .
6. To control and minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea' Area by harmful substances the Contracting Parties shall, in addition to the provisions of Article 5 of the present Convention, aim at attaining the goals and applying the criteria enumerated in Annex III of the present Conven­ tion.
7. Ii the discharge from a watercourse, flowing through
the territories of two or more Contracting Parties or
forming a boundary between them, is liable to cause
pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Verschmutzung der Meeresumwelt des Ostseegebiets
Area, the Contracting Parties concerned shall in com­ mon take appropriate measures in order to prevent and abate such pollution.
3. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to use best practicable means in order to minimize the airborne pol­ lution of the Baltic Sea Area by noxious substances.
Prevention of pollution from ships
1. In order to protect the Baltic Sea Area from pollu­ tion by deliberate, negligent or accidental release of oil, harmful substances other than oil, and by the discharge of sewage and garbage from ships, the Contracting Par­ ties shall take measures as set out in Annex IV of the present Convention.
2. The Contracting Parties shall develop and apply
uniform requirements for the capacity and location of
facilities for the reception of residues of oil, harmful-
substances other thtjn oil, including sewage and garbage,
taking into account inter alia the special needs of pas­ und wenden diese an, wobei sie unter anderem die
senger ships and combination carriers.
 Article 8 Pleasure crait
The Contracting Parties shall, in addition to imple­
with adequate reception facilities for wastes from ple­
Article 9 Prévention of dumping
1. The Contracting Parties shall, subject to Paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article, prohibit dumping in the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Dumping of dredged spoils shall be subject to a prior special permit by the appropriate national authority in accordance with the provisions of Annex V- of the pres­ ent Convention.
3. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure com­
which is to be dumped; or
c) believed to be engaged in dumping within its ter­ ritorial sea.
4. The provisions of this Article shall not apply when the safety of human life or of a vessel or aircraft at sea is threatened by the complete destruction or total loss of the vessel or aircraft, or . in any case which constitutes a danger to human life, if dumping appears to be the only way of averting the threat and if there is every probabil­ ity that the damage consequent upon such dumping will be less than would otherwise occur. Such dumping shall be so conducted as to minimize the likelihood o. damage to human or marine life.
3. Dumping made under the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Article shall be reported and dealt with in ac­ cordance with Annex VI of the present Convention and shall also be reported forthwith to the Commission refer­ red to in Article. 12 of the present Convention in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Regulation 4 of Annex V of the present Convention.
6. In case of dumping suspected to be in contravention of the provisions of this Article the Contracting Parties shall co-operate in investigating the matter in accordance with Regulation 2 of Annex IV of the present Conven­ tion.
Exploration and exploitation .■ of the sea-bed and its subsoil
Each Contracting Party shall take all appropriate meas­ ures in order to. prevent pollution of the marine en­ vironment of the Baltic Sea Area resulting from explora­ tion or exploitation of its part of the sea-bed and its subsoil or from any associated activities thereon. It shall also ensure that'adequate equipment is at hand to start an immediate abatement of pollution in that area.
Co-operation in combatting marine pollution
lhc Contracting Parties shall take measures and co­ operate as set out in Annex VI of the present Conven­ tion in order to eliminate or minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea Area by oil or other harmful substances.
Institutional and organizational framework
1. The Baltic Marine Environment Protection Com­ mission , hereinafter referred to as " the Commission ", is heieby established for the purposes of the present Con­ vention .
2. The chairmanship of the Commission shall be given to eneh Contracting Party in turn in alphabetical ortler of the names of the States in the English language.
The Chairman shall serve for a period of two years, and cannot during the period of his chairmanship serve as representative of his country.
Should the chairmanship fall vacant, the Contracting Party chairing the Commission shall nominate a suc­ cessor to remain in office until the term of chairmanship of that Contracting Party expires.
3. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at least once a year upon convocation by the Chairman. Upon the request of a Contracting Party, provided it is en­ dorsed by another Contracting Party, the Chafhnan shall, as soon as possible, summon an extraordinary meeting at such time and place as the Chairman determines, how­ ever, not later than ninety days from the date of the sub­ mission of the request.
4. The first meeting of the Commission shall be called by the Depositary Government and shall take place within a period of ninety days from the date fol­ lowing the entry into force of the present Convention.
5. Each Contracting Party shall have one vote in the Commission. Unless otherwise provided under the pres­ ent Convention, the Commission shall take its decisions unanimously.
The duties of the Commission
The duties of the Commission shall be:
To keep the implementation of the present Conven­ tion under continuous observation ;
To make "recommendations on measures relating to the purposes of the present Convention;
To keep under review the contents of the present c) Convention including its Annexes and to recommend
to the Contracting Parties such amendments to the present Convention including its Annexes as may be required including changes in the lists of substances
and materials as well as the adoption of new An­ nexes ;
To define pollution control criteria, objectives for the reduction of pollution , and objectives'concerning meas­ ures, particularly according to Annex III of the pres­ ent Convention ;
e) To promote m close co-operation with appropriate e)
governmental bodies , taking into consideration Sub- Paragraph f) of this Article, additional measures to protect the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area and for this purpose:
 (i) to receive, process, summarizc and disseminata froin available sources relevant scientific, tech- nological and Statistical Information; and
(ii) to promotc scientific and technological research;
regional and other international organizations to col­ laborate in scientific and technological research as well as other relevant activities pertinent to the ob­ jectives of the present Convention;
g) To assume such other functions as may be appro­ priate under the terms of the present Convention.
Administrative provisions for the Commission
1. The working language of the Commission shall be English. "
2. The Commission shall adopt its Rules of Procedure.
3. The office of the Commission, hereafter referred to as the "Secretariat", shall be in Helsinki.
4..The Commission shall appoint an Executive Secre­ tary and make provisions for the appointment of such other personnel as may be necessary, and determine the duties, terms and conditions of the Executive Secretary.
5. The Executive Secretary shall be the chief adminis­ trative official of the Commission and shall perform the functions that are necessary for the administration of the present Convention, the work of the Commission and other tasks entrusted to the Executive Secretary by the Commission and its Rules of Procedure.
Financial provisions for the Commission
1. The Commission shall adopt its Financial Rul'is.
2. The Commission shall adopt an annual or biennial budget of proposed expenditures and budget estimates for the fiscal period following thereafter.
3 . The total amount of the budget , including any sup­ plementary budget adopted by the Commission, shall be contributed by the Contracting Parties in . equal parts , unless the Commission unanimously decides otherwise .
4. Each Contracting Party shall pay the expenses related to the participation in the Commission of its rep­ resentatives, experts and advisers.
Scicntific and techuological co-operatioa
1. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other interna­ tional organizations , to co-operate in the fields of science , technology and other research, and to exchange data as well as other scientific information for the purposes of the present Convention.
2. Without prejudice to Paragraphs t, 2 and 3 of Ar­ ticle 4 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties undertake directly, "or when appropiiate through com­ petent regional or other international organizations, to promote studies , untertake , support or contribute to prog­ rammes aimed at developing -ways and means for the
 • assessment of the nature and extent of pollution, path­ ways , exposures , risks and remedies in the Baltic Sea Area, and particularly to develop alternative methods of treatment, disposal and elimination of such matter and substances that are likely to cause pollution of the ma- rim; environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
3. The Contracting Parties undertake direclly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other inter­ national organizations, and, on the basis of the informa­ tion and data acquired pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, to co-operate in developing inter-com- parable observation methods, in performing baseline studies and in establishing complementary or joint prog­ rammes for monitoring.
4. The organization and scope of work connected with the implementation of tasks referred to in the preceding Paragraphs should primarily be outlined by.the Com­ mission.
Article. 17 Responsibility for damage
The Contracting Parties undertake, as soon as pos­ sible, jointly to develop and accept rules concerning responsibility for damage resulting from acts or omis­ sions in contravention of the present Convention, includ­ ing, inter alia, limits of responsibility, criteria and proce­ dures for the determination of liability and available remedies.
Article 18 Settlement of disputes
1. In case of a dispute between Contracting Parties as to the interpretation or application of the present Con­ vention , they should seek a solution by negotiation . If the Parties concerned cannot reach agreement they should seek the good offices of or jointly request the mediation by a third Contracting Party, a qualified international org? lization or a qualified person.
2. If the Parties concerned have not been able to re­ solve their dispute through negotiation or have been unable to agree on measures as described above, such disputes shall be, upon common agreement, submitted to an ad-hoc arbitration tribunal, to a permanent- arbitra­ tion tribunal, or to the International Court of Justice.
' ' Article 19 Safeguard of certain freedoms
Nothing in the present Convention shall be construed as infringing upon the freedom of navigation, fishing, marine scientific research and other legitimate uses of the high, seas, as well as upon the right of innocent pas­ sage through the territorial sea.
Article 20 Status of Annexes
The Annexes attached to the present Convention form an integral part of the Convention.
Relation to other Conventions
The provisions of the present Convention shall be wi'hont prejudice to Vac rights and obligations of the
 Contracting Parties under treaties concluded previously
as well as under treaties which may be concluded in the .."uture, furthering and developing the general principles of the Law of the Sea that the present Convention is
based upon and in - particular provisions concerning prevention of pollution of the marine environment.
- Revision of the Convention
A conference for the purpose of a general revision of - Mit Zustimmung der Vertragsparteien oder auf Er­ the present Convention may be convened with the con­ suchen der Kommission kann eine Konferenz zur allge­ sent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the meinen Revision dieses Ubereinkommens einberufen Commission. werden.
Amendments to the Articles of the Convention
1. Bach Contracting Party may propose amendments to the Articles of the present Convention. Any such pro­ posed amendment shall be submitted to the Depositary Government and communicated by it to all Contracting Parties, which shall inform the Depositary Government of either their acceptance or rejection of the amendment as soon as possible after the receipt of the communica­ tion. *
The amendment shall enter into force ninety days after the Depositary Government has received notifications of acceptance of that amendment from all Contracting Par­ ties.
' 2. With the consent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission a conference may be con­ vened for the purpose of amending the present Conven­ tion.
Amendments to the Annexes and the adoption of Annexes
1. Any amendment to the Annexes proposed by a Con­ tracting Party shall be communicated to the other Con­ tracting Parties by the Depositary Government and con­ sidered in the Commission. If adopted by the Commis­ sion, the amendment shall be communicated to the Con­ tracting Parties and recommended for acceptance.
2. Such amendment shall be deemed to have been ac­ cepted at the end of a period determined by the Com­ mission unless within that period anyone of the Con­ tracting Parties has objected to the amendment. The ac­ cepted amendment shall enter into force on a date deter­ mined by the Commission.
The period determined by the Commission shall be pro­ longed for an additional period of six months and the date of entry into force ,of the amendment postponed accordingly, if, in exceptional cases, any Contracting Party before the expiring of the period determined by the Commission informs the Depositary Government, that , although it intends to accept the proposal , the con­ stitutional requirements for such an acceptance are not yet fulfilled in its State.
3. An Annex to the present Convention may be adopted in accordance with the provisions of this Ar­ ticle .
4. The Depositary Government shall inform all Con­ tracting Parties of any amendments or the adoption of a new Annex which enter into force under this Article and of the dale on which such amendment or new An­ nex enters into forcS.
■ 5. Any objection under this Article shall be made fey notification in writing to the Depositary Government
 which shall notify all Contracting Parties and the Ex­ ecutive Secretary of any such notification and the data of its roceipt.
1. The provisions of the present Convention shall not be subject to reservations.
2. The provision of Paragraph I of this Article does not prevent a Contracting Party from suspending for a period not exceeding one year the application of an Annex of the present Convention or part thereof or an amendment thereto after the Annex in question or the amendment thereto has entered into force.
3. If after the entry into force of the present Conven­ tion a Contracting Party invokes the provisions of Para­ graph 2 of this Article it shall inform the other Contract­ ing Parties, at the time of the adoption by the Commis­ sion of an amendment to sn Annex - or a new Ahnex, of those provisions which will be suspended in accordance with Paragraph 2 of this Article. ;
Signature, ratification, approvai, and accession
1. The present Convention shall be open for signature in Helsinki on 22 March 1974 by the Baltic Sea States participating in the Diplomatic Conference on the Protec­ tion of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, held in Helsinki from 18 to 22 March 1974. The present Convention shall be open for accession to any other State interested in fulfilling the aims and purposes of the present Convention, provided that this Sta,te is invited by all the Contracting Parties.
2. The present Convention shall be subject to ratifica­ tion or approval by the States which have signed it.
3. The instruments of ratification, approval, or acces­
sion shall be deposited with the Government of Finland,
which will perform the duties of the Depositary Govern­
Artikel 28 Withdrawal Rücktritt
Article 27 Entry into force
The present Convention shall enter into force two months after the deposit of the . seventh instrument of ratification or approval.
1. At any timet after the expiry of five years from the date of entry into force of the present Convention any Contracting Party may, by giving written notification to the Depositary Government, withdraw from the present Convention. The withdrawal shall take effect for such Contracting Party on the thirty-first day of December of the year which follows the year in which the Depositary Government was notified of the withdrawal.
2. In case of notification of withdrawal by a Contract­ considering the effect of the withdrawal.
The present Convention has been drawn up in a single copy in the English language. Official translations into
ish languages shall be prepared and deposited with the signed original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipoten­
DONE AT HELSINKI, this twenty-second day of March' . GESCHEHEN ZU HELSINKI am 22. März 1974 one thousand nine hundred and seventy-four.
 its derivatives DDE and DDD.
2. PCB's (polychlorinated biphenyls).
The protection of the Baltic Sea Area from pollution
by the substances listed below can involve the use of
appropriate technical means, prohibitions and regulations geeignete technische Maßnahmen, durch Verbote und of the transport, trade, handling, application, and final Vorschriften über Beförderung, Handel, Handhabung, An­
 Noxious Substances and Materials
The following substances and materials are listed for the purposes of Article 6 of the present Convention.
The list ist valid for substances and materials intro­
duced as waterborne into the marine environment. The
2. Antimony, arsenic, beryllium, chromium, copper, lead, molybdenum , nickel , selenium , tin , vanadium , zinc , and their compounds, as well as elemental phos­ phorus .
3. Phenols and their derivatives.
4. Phthalic acid and its derivatives.
6.. Persistent halogenated hydrocarbons.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and their deriva­ tives.
Persistent toxic organosilicic compounds.
Persistent pesticides, including organophosphoric and organostannic pesticides, herbicides, slimicides and chemicals used for the preservation of wood, timber, wood pulp, cellulose, paper, hides and 'textiles, hot covered by the provisions of Annex I of the present' Convention.
Acids , alkalis and surface concentrations or big quantities.
Oil and wastes of petrochemical and other industries containing lipid-soluble substances.
Substances having adverse effects an the taste and/ or smell of products for .human consumption from the sea, or effects on taste, smell, colour, transparency or other characteristics of the water seriously reduc­ ing its amenity values.
Materials and substances which may float, remain in suspension'or sink, aud which may seriously inter­ fere with any legitimate use of the sea.
Lignin substances contained in industrial waste wat­ ers.
The chelators EDTA (ethylenedinitrilotetraacetic acid
or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) and DTPA (die­ thylenetriaminopentaacetic acid).
practicable means to prevent harmful substances and materials from being introduced as airborne into the Baltic Sea Area.
1. Mercury, cadmium, and their compounds.
 Goals, Criteria and Measures concerning the Prevention of Land-Based Pollution
In accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties shall endeav­ our to attain the goals and apply the criteria . and measures enumerated in this Annex in order to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area. .
1. Municipal sewage shall be treated in an appropriate way so that the amount of organic matter does not cause harmful changes in the oxygen content of the Baltic Sea Area and the amount of nutrients does not cause harmful eutrophication of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Municipal sewage shall also be treated in an ap­ propriate. way to ensure-that the hygienic quality, and in particular epidemiological and toxicological.safety, of the receiving sea area is maintained at a level which does not cause harm to human health, and in a way that under the given composition of the sewage no significant dmount of such harmful substances as are listed in An­ nexes I and II of the present Convention is formed.
3. The polluting load of industrial wastes shall be minimized in an appropriate way in order to reduce the amount of harmful substances, organic matter and nutrients.
4. The means referred to in Paragraph 3 of this Annex
shall in particular include minimization of production
and improvement of qualifications for water treatment.
In the treatment of waste water mechanical, chemidal,
biological and other measures, according to the quality
of the waste water, and as required to maintain or im­
prove the quality of the recipient water, shall be applied.
5. The discharge of cooling water from nuclear power plants or other kinds of industries using large amounts of water shall be effected in a way which minimizes the pollution of the marine environment Of the Baltic Sea Area.
6. The Commission will define pollution control criteria, objectives for reduction of pollution and objectives con­ cerning measures, including processing techniques and
waste treatment, to reduce pollution of the Baltic Sea Area.
 Prevention of Pollution from Ships Regulation 1
The Contracting Parties shall as appropriate co-operate and assist each other in initiating action by the Inter- Govemmental Maritime Consultative Organization to develop :
a) international rules for navigation of deep draught ships in narrow and shallow waters in international waters of the Baltic Sea Area and in the entrances
to the Baltic Sea for the prevention of collisions, strandings and groundings;
b) an international radio reporting system for large ships en route within the Baltic Sea Area as well as for
. ships carrying a significant amount of a harmful substance .
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, as appropriate assist each other in investigating viola­ tions of the existing legislation on antipollution meas­ ures, which have occurred or are suspected to have occurred within the Baltic Sea Area. This assistance may include but is not limited to inspection by the competent authorities of oil record books, cargo record books, log books and engine log books and taking oil samples for analytical identification purposes and in respect of the system of tagging oil residues.
For the purposes of this Annex :
1. "Ship" means a vessel of any type whatsoever operat­ ing in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag Of;. any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms- engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal State concerned.
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances , means any release howsoever caused from a ship and includes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pumping, emitting or emptying ;
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping?of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , - exploitation and asso-
 cuiled off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral resources; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
4. "Nearest land ". The term "from the nearest land "
means from the baseline from which the territorial sea
of the territory in question is established in accord­ ance with international law.
5. The term "jurisdiction" shall be interpreted in accord­ ance with international law in force at the time of application or interpretation of this Annex.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1 Januafy 1977 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on methods /or the prevention of pollution by oil -from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
"Oil" means petroleum in any form including crude oil , . fuel oil , sludge , oil refuse and refined products (other than petrochemicals which are subject to the provisions of Regulation 5 of this Annex) and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing* includes the substances listed in Appendix I to this An'nex. ~
"Oily mixture" means a mixture with any oil content.
"Oil fuel" means any oil used as fuel in connection with the propulsion and auxiliary machinery of the ship in which such oil is carried.
primarily to carry oil in bulk in its cargo spaces and includes combination carriers and .any "chemical tanker" as defined in Regulation 5 of this Annex when it is carrying a cargo or part cargo of oil in bulk.
5. "Combination carrier" means a ship designed to carry either oil or solid cargoes in bulk.
6. Clean ballast" means the ballast in a tank which 6. Der Ausdruck .sauberer Ballast" bezeichnet den
since oil was last carried therein has been so cleaned that effluent therefrom if it were discharged from a
ship which is stationary into clean calm water on a clear day would not produce visible traces of oil on the surface of the water or on adjoining shore lines or cause a sludge or emulsion.to be deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining shore lines. If the ballast is discharged through an oil dischaige monitoring and control system approved by the Administration, evidence based on such a system to the effect that the oil con'ent of the effluent did not exceed 15 parts per million shall be determinative that the ballot was clean, notwithstanding the presence of visible traces.
 7. "Segregated ballast" means the ballast water intro­ duced into a tank which is completely separated from the, cargo oil and oil fuel system and which is permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious substances as variously defined in the Regula­ tions of this Annex.
B Control of Discharge of Oil
1. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures from any oil tanker and any ship of 400 tons gross tonnage and above other than an oil tanker shall be prohibited, while in the Baltic Sea Area;
b) such ships while in the Baltic Sea Area shall retain on board all oil drainage and sludge, dirty ballast and tank washing waters and discharge them only to reception facilities.
2. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oil: or oily mixtures from a ship of less than 400 tons gross tonnage, other than an oil tanker, shall be prohibited while in the Baltic Se'a Area, except when the oil content of the effluent without dilution does not exceed 15 parts per million or alternatively when all of the following condi­ tions are satisfied:
(i) the ship is proceeding en route;
(ii) the oil content of the effluent is less than 100 parts per million; and
(iii) the discharge is made as far as practicable from the land, but in no case less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land ; *
b) no discharge into the sea shall contain chemicals or other substances in quantities or concentrations which are hazardous to the marine environment or chemicals
or other substances introduced for the purpose of circum­
4. Whenever visible traces of oil are observed--on or
below the surface of the water in the immediate vicinity
of a ship or its wake , the Contracting Parties should , to
the extent they are reasonably able to do so, promptly
c) the oil residues which cannot be discharged into the sea in compliance with Sub-Paragraph 2 a) of this Paragraph shall be retained on board or discharged to reception facilities.
3. The provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to the discharge of clean or segregated ballast.
there has been. a. violation of the provisions of this Regulation . The investigation should include , in particu­ lar, the wind and sea conditions, the track and speed of the ship, other possible sources of the visible traces in the vicinity , and any relevant oil discharge records .
Paragraph B of this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or
resulting from damage to a ship or its equipmcnV:
 (j) provided (hat all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted •either with intont to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or
c) the discharge into the- sea of substances containing oil, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution in­ cidents in order lo minimize the damage from pollu­ tion. Any such discharge shall be subject to the approval of any Contracting Party in whose jurisdic­ tion it is contemplated the discharge will occur.
ft Special Requirements for Drilling Rigs and other Platfaims
Fixed and floating drilling rigs when engaged in the exploration , exploitation and associated offshore process­ ing of sea-bed mineral resources and other platforms shall "comply with the requirements of this Regulation applicable to ships of 400 tons gross tonnage and above Other than oil tankers, except that:
a) they shall keep a record of all operations involving oil or oily mixture discharges, in a form approved by the Administration ; and
b) subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, the discharge into the serf of oil or oily mixtures shall be prohibited except when the oil content of the discharge without dilution docs not exceed 15 parts per million.
E Reception Facilities of the Baltic Sea Area
The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure that not
later than 1 January 1977 all oil loading terminals and
repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area are provided with
facilities adequate for the reception and treatment of
all the dirty ballast and tank washing waters from oil
tankers. In addition all ports, of the area shall be provided
with adequate reception facilities for other residues and biets mit ausreichenden Auffanganlagen für sonstige oily mixtures from all ships. Such facilities shall have
adequate capacity to meet the needs of the ships using them without causing undue delay.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible, but
not later than 1 January 1977 or at a date not later
than one year after the date of the entry into force of
the present Convention, whichever occurs later, decide
upon a date from which the provisions of Paragraphs A
to D of this Regulation on the discharge of noxious ger Stoffe als Massengut aus Schiffen, die im Ostsee­ liquid substances in bulk from ships while operating in gebiet betrieben werden, Anwendung finden. •
the Baltic Sea Area shall apply.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
adapted primarily to cairy a cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk and includes an "oil tanker" as
 defined in Regulation 4 of this Annex when carrying a cargo or part cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk . •
2. 'Clean ballast" means ballast carried in a tank which, since it was last used to carry a cargo containing a substance in Category A, B, C, or D has been thor­ oughly cleaned and the residues resulting therefrom have been discharged and the tank emptied in accord­ ance with the appropriate requirements of this Regula­ tion.
3. "Segregated ballast" means ballast -water introduced into a tank permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious liquid substances as variously defined in the Regulations of this Annex, and which is completely separated from the cargo and oil fuel system .
4. "Liquid substances" are those having a Vapour pres­ sure not exceeding 2.8 kp/cm5 at a temperature of 37.8 °C.
designated in Appendix III to this Annex or provi­ sionally'assessed under the provisions of Sub-Para­ graph 4 of Paragraph B of this Regulation as falling into Category A, B, C, or D;
B Categorization and Listing of Noxious Liquid Substances
1. For the purposes of this Regulation noxious liquid substances shall be divided into four categories as fol­ lows:
a) Category A – noxious liquid substances .which if
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a major hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause
serious harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of stringent anti-pollution measures ;
b) Category B – noxious liquid substances which if b) Gruppe B – schädliche flüssige Stoffe, die, wenn sie
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause harm to amenities or other legitimate' uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of special anti-pollu­ tion measures;
c) Category C – noxious liquid substances which if c) Gruppe C j– schädliche flüssige Stoffe, die, wenn sie
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or dcbal- lasting operation's would present a minor hazard to cither marine, resources or human health or cause
minor harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore require special operational conditions :
d) Category D – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from lank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a recognizable hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause minimal harm to amenities or other legiti­
mate uses of the sea . and therefore require attention in operational conditions.
some
 2. Guidelines for use in the categorization of noxious liquid substances are given in Appendix II to this Annex.
3. The list of noxious liquid substances carried in bulk and presently categorized which are subject to the provi­ sions of this Regulation is set out in Appendix III to this Annex.
4. Where it is proposed to carry a liquid substance in bulk which has not been categorized under Sub-Para­ graph 1 ot this Paragraph or 'evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph C of this Regulation the Contracting Parties involved in the proposed operation shall establish and agree on a provisional assessment for the proposed operation on the basis of the guidelines referred to in Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph. Until full agreement between the Governments involved has been reached, the substance shall be carried under the most severe conditions proposed.
1. The substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex have been evaluated and found to fall outside the Categories A, B, C, and D, as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph B of this Regulation because they are presently considered to present no barm to human health, marine resources, amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea, when discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or deballasting operations.
2. The discharge of bilge or ballast water or other residues or mixtures containing only substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex shall not be subject to any requirement of this Regulation.
3. The discharge into the sea of cleafl ballast or ment of this Regulation.
D Discharge of Noxious Liquid Substances
Subject to the provisions of Paragraph E of this Regu­ lation :
1. The discharge into the sea of substances in Category A as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of Para­ graph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures c'ontaining such substances shall be prohibited. If tanks containing .such substances or mixtures are to be washed, the resulting residues shall be discharged to a reception facility which the Contract­ ing Parties shall provide in accordance with Paragraph H of this Regulation, until the concentration of the sub­ stance in the effluent to such facility is at or below the residual conce'ntfation prescribed for that substance in column IV of Appendix III to this Annex and until the tank is empty. Provided that the residue then remaining in the tank is subsequently diluted by the addition of a volume of water of not less than 5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, it may be discharged into the sea when all the following conditions are also satisfied:
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a -speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled .ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled;
12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a^cpth of water of not !'JSS than 25 metres.
 2. The discharge into the sea of substances in (2) Das Einleiten ins Meer von Stoffen der Gruppe B Category B as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of Para- im Sinne des Abschnitts B Absatz 1 Buchstabe b Oder grapli B of this Regulation or of those provisionally von vorlaufig als solche bewerteten Stoffen oder von assessed as such or ballast v/atcr, tank wa.hings, or Ballastwasser, Tankwuschwasser oder sonstigen Ruck-
other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited except when all the following condi- tions arc satisfied:
a) the tank has been washed after unloading with a volume of water of not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, and the resulting residues have been discharged to a reception facility until the tank is empty;
b) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of. ships which are not self- propelled ;
c) the procedures and arrangements for discharge and washings are approved by the Administration and . shall ensure that the concentration and rate of dis- charge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the wake astern of the ship .does
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, rtaking into account the location of the seawater intakes; and
12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth . of water of not less than 25 metres.
3. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate­
gory C as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Paragraph B
of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as
such or ballast watei, tank washings, or other residues Ballastwasser, Tankwaschwasser oder sonstigen Rück­
or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro­ hibited except when all the following conditions are satisfied : .
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are no', self- - propelled;
approved by the Administration and shall erasure that the concentration and rate of discharge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the
wake astern of the ship does not exceed 1 part per million ;
c) the maximum quantity of cargo discharged from each c) die Höchstmenge der aus jedem Tank und dem dazu­
tank and its associated piping system does not exceed the maximum quantity approved in accordance with . the procedures referred to in Sub-Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph which shall in no case exceed the greater of 1 cubic metre or 1/3.000 of the tank capac­ ity in cubic metres ;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account thfe location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth
. of water of not less than 25 metres.
4. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate- gory D as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Paragraph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally' assessed as such or ballast water , tank washings , or other residues or mixturcs containing such substances shall be pro- hibited except when all the following conditions arc satisfied: •
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case?of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled; •
 b) such mixtures are of a concentration not greater than b) die Gemische habon eine Konzentraüou von höch­ one part of the substance in ten parts of water; and stens einem Teil des jeweiligen Stoffes auf zehn Teile
12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
5. Ventilation procedures approved by the Administra­ tion may be used to remove cargo residues from a tank. If subsequent washing of the tank is necessary, the discharge into the sea of the resulting tank washings shall be made in accordance with Sub-Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, or 4 of this Paragraph, whichever is applicable.
6. The discharge into the sea of substances which have not been categorized, provisionally assessed, or evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Para­ graph C of this Regulation, or of ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited.
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances resulting from
. damage to a ship or its equipment:
(i) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge and
(ii) except if the owner or the Mdster acted either with intent to cause damage, or recklessly end with knowledge that damage would probably result; or '
c) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution incidents in order to minimize the damage from pollution. Any such dis­ charge shall be subject to the approval of any Con­ tracting Party in whose jurisdiction it is contemplated
. the discharge will occur.
F Measures of Control
1. The Contracting Parties shall appoint or authorize surveyors for the purpose of implementing this Para­ graph .
2. a) If a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pump­
ing or transfer operation carried out in connection with
that lank shall also be entered in the' Cargo Record
3. If the tank is to be washed:
the effluent from the tank washing operation shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility at least until the concentration of the substance in the
discharge, as indicated by analyses of samples of the effluent taken by the surveyor, has fallen to the residual concentration specified for that substance In Appendix III to u . s Annqx . Whc.i llie required re-
 sidual concentration has been achieved , remaining ' tank washings shall continue to be discharged to the reception facility until the tank is empty. Appropriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo
Record Book and certified by the surveyor; and
b) afler diluting the residue then remaining in the tank with at least 5 per cent of the tank capacity of water, this mixture may be discharged into the sea in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Sub-Paragraphs 1 a),
•b), and c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. Ap­ propriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
4. Where the Government of the receiving Party is satisfied that it is impracticable to measure the concen­ tration of the substance in the effluent without causing undue delay to the ship, that Party may accept an alternative procedure as being equivalent to Sub-Para­ graph 3 a) of this Paragraph provided that :
a) a precleaning procedure for that tank and that- sub­ ■ stance is approved by t"he Administration and that Party is satisfied that such procedure will fulfil the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph D of this Regulation with respect to the attainment of the
b) a surveyor duly authorized by that Party shall certify in the Cargo Record Book that:
(i) the tank, its pump and piping system have been emptied, and that the quantity of cargo remaining in the tank is at or below the quantity on which the approved precleaning procedure referred to in Sub-Paragraph (ii) of this Sub-Paragraph has been based;
(ii) precleaning has been carried out in accordance with the precleaning procedure approved by the Administration for that tank and that substance; and
(iii) the tank washings resulting from such preclean-. ing have been discharged to a reception facility and the tank is empty;
c) the discharge into the sea of any remaining residues c) sofern das Einleiten etwaiger verbleibender Rück­
shall . be in accordance with the provisions ojf Sub- Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may-..be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Category B substance, ensure compliance with the following :
if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pumping or transfer operation carried out in connection with that tank shall also be entered in the Cargo Record Book ;
if the tank is to be washed, the effluent from the tank washing operation, which shall contain a volume of water not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility until the tank, its pump and piping system are empty. An appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
d) if the tank is to.be further cleaned and -emptied at sea, the Master shall:
 (i) ensure that the approved procedures referred to , in Sub-Paragraph 2 cl of Paragraph D of this Regu­ lation are complied with and Ihot the appropriate entries are made in the Cargo Record Book ; and
(ii) ensure that any discharge into the sea. is made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Para­ graph 2 of Paragraph D of this Regulation and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book ;
e) if after unloading a Category B substance, any res­ idues of tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the Baltic Sea Area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
6. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the
authorized or appointed surveyor as may be deemed
necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship
shall, with respect to a Category C substance,, ensure tän eines Schiffes im Hinblick auf einen Stoff der. compliance with the following :
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not ■ cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
b) .if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
. (ii) the quantity of substance remaining in the tank shall not exceed the maximum quantity which may be discharged into the sea for that sub­ stance under Sub-Paragraph 3 c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. An appropriate efltry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; :
(iii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea the approved procedures shall be complied with, and the necessary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An ap­ propriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(iv) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(v) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 3 of Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
(i) the tank- washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location and disposition of the tank washings;
d) if after unloading a Category C substance within the Baltic Sea Area, any residues or tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
7. The Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Cate­ gory D substance, ensure compliance with the following:
 aj if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
(ii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea, the neces­ sary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An appro­ priate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
(iii) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(iv) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 4 of 'Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
–(i) the tank washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion- facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location and disposition of the tank washings.
Discharge irom a Slop Tank
8. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank, including those from pump room bilges, which contain a Category A or a Category B substance, shall be dis­ charged to a reception facility in accordance with the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 or 2 of Paragraph D of■ this Regulation, whichever is applicable. An appropriate- entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
9. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank, including those from pump room bilges, which contain a Category C substance in excess of the aggregate of the
maximum quantities specified in Sub-Paragraph 3c) of
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall be discharged to a
the Cargo Record Book. . :
1. Every ship to which this Regulation applies shall be provided with a Cargo Record Book, whether as part of the ship 's official log book or otherwise , in the form specified in Appendix V to this Annex.
2. The Cargo Record Book shall be completed, on a tank-to-tank basis, whenever any of the following opera­ tions with respect to a noxious liquid substance takes place in the ship :
loading of cargo ;
unloading of cargo ;
transfer of cargo ;
transfer of cargo, cargo residues or mixtures con­
taining cargo to a slop tank ; clearing of cargo tanks ; transfer from slop lanks ; ballasting of cargo tanks; transfer of dirty ballast water;
discharge into the sea in accordance with Para­ graph I) of this Regulation.
 • 3. In the event of any discharge of the kind referred to in Annex VI of the present Convention and Para­ graph E of this Regulation of any noxious liquid sub­ stance or mixture containing such substance, whether intentional or accidental, an entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book stating the circumstances of,- and the reason for, the discharge.
4. When a surveyor appointed or outhorized' by a Contracting Party to supervise any operations under this Regulation has inspected a ship, then that surveyor shall make an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Each operation referred to in Sub-Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Paragraph shall be fully recorded without delay in the Cargo Record Book so that all the entries in the Book appropriate to that operation are completed. Each entry shall be signed by the officer or officers in charge of the operation concerned and , when the ship is manned , each page shall be signed by the Master of 'the ship. The entries in the Cargo Record Book shall be in an official language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly , and , except when the ship is engaged in domestic voyages, in English or French. The entries in an official national language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly shall prevail in case of a dispute or discrepancy.
6. The Cargo Record Book shall be kept in such a place as to be readily available for inspection and, except in the case of unmanned ships under tow, shall be kept on board the ship. It shall be retained for a period of two years after the last entry has been made.
7. The competent authority of a Contracting Party may
inspect the Cargo Record Book on board any ship to -kann das Ladungstagebuch an Bord jedes Schiffes, für
which this Regulation applies while the ship is in its port, and may make a copy of any entry in that Book and may require the Master of the ship to certify that the copy is a true copy of such entry. Any copy so made which has been certified by the Master of the ship as a true copy of an entry in the ship's Cargo Record Book shall be made admissible in any judicial proceedings as evidence of the facts stated in the entry. The inspection of a Cargo Record Book and the taking of a certified copy by the competent authority under this Paragraph shall be performed as expeditiously as possible without causing the ship to be unduly delayed. ■ ■
1. The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure "the provision of reception facilities according to the needs of ships using their ports, terminals or repair ports of the Bailie Sea Area a$ follows:
a) cargo loading and unloading ports and terminals shall have facilities adequate for reception without undue delay to ships of such residues and mixtures con­ taining noxious liquid substances as would remain for disposal from ships carrying them as a conse­ quence of the application of this Regulation; and
b) ship repair ports undertaking repairs to chemical tan­ b) Schiffsreparaturhäfen, die Reparaturen an Chemika-
kers shall have facilities adequate for the reception of residues and mixtures containing noxious liquid substances.
2. Each Contracting Party shall determine the types of
facilities provided fm the purpose of Sub-Paragraph 1
of this Paragraph at its cargo loading and unloading und Löschhäfen, ihren Umschlagplätzen und Schiffsrepa-
ports, terminals and ship repair ports of the Baltic Sea" Alt:ci.
Harmful substances In packaged forms
A. The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible apply suitable uniform rules for the carriage of harmful substances in packaged forms or in freight containers, portable tanks or road and rail tank wagons.
B. With respect to certain harmful substances, as may be designated by the Commission, the Master or owner of the ship or his representative shall notify the appro­ priate port authority of the intent to load or unload such substances at least 24 hours prior to such action.
C. A report of an incident involving harmful sub­ stances shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex VI of the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on discharge of sewage ships while operating in the Baltic Sea :Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
1. "New ship* means a ship:
a) for which the building contract is placed, or in the absence of a building contract, the keel of which is laid, or which is at a similar stage of construc­ tion, on or after the date of entry into force of the present Convention ; or
b) the delivery of which is three years or more after the date of entry into force of the present Conven­ tion.
2. "Existing ship" means a ship which is not a new ship.
a) drainage and other wastes from any form of toilets, urinals , and WC scuppers ;
b) drainage from medical premises (dispensary, sick bay, etc.) via wash basins, wash tubs and scuppers located in such premises ;
c) drainage from spaces containing living animals; or
d) other waste waters when mixed with the drainages, defined above.
4. "Holding tank" means a tank used for the collection and storage of sewage.
1. The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to:
a) new ships certified to carry more than 100 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1977;
b) existing ships certified to carry more than 400 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1978; and
c) other ships, as specified in Sub-Paragraphs (i), (ii), and (iii), from dates decided by the Contracting Par­ ties on recommendation by the Commission:
(i) ships of 200 tons gross tonnage and above;
 (ii) ships of less' than 200 tons gross tonnage which arc certified to carry more llian 10 persons ;
(iii) ships which do not have a measured gross ton­ nage and arc certified to carry more than 40 per­ sons.
In the case of new such ships the date shall be not later than 1 January 197!). In the case of existing such ships the date shall be not later than ten years after the date decided for new ships.
2. A Contracting Party may, if it is satisfied that the application of the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of this Paragraph with respect to a certain ship would necessi­ tate constructional alterations which would be unreason­ able, exempt the ship from the application until a date not later than ten years after the date of entry into force of the present Convention.
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph D of this Regulation, the discharge of sewage into the sea is pro­ hibited, except when:
a) the ship is discharging comminuted and disinfected sewage using a system approved by the Administra­ tion at a distance of more than 4 nautical miles from the nearest land, or sewage which is not comminuted or disinfected at a distance of more than 12 nautical
miles from the nearest land, provided that in any case the sewage that has been stored in holding tanks shall not be discharged instantaneously but at a moderate rate when the ship is en route and proceeding at not less than 4 knots ; or
b) the ship has in operation a sewage treatment plant which has been approved by the Administration, and
(i) the test results of the plant are laid down in a document carried by the ship;
(ii) additionally, the effluent shall not produce visible floating solids in, nor cause discolouration of the surrounding water,- or
c) the ship is situated in the waters under the jurisdic­ tion of a State and is discharging sewage in accords ance with such less stringent requirements as may be imposed by such State.
2. When the sewage is mixed with wastes or waste water having different discharge requirements, the.more stringent requirements shall apply.
Paragraph C of .this Regulation shall not apply to :
a) the discharge of sewage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge of sewage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment if all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the discharge.
1. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the provision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the
 causing' undue delay to ships, adequate to meet the needs of the ships using them .
2. To enable pipes of reception facilities to be con­ nected with the ship's discharge pipeline, both lines shall be fitted with a standard discharge connection in accord­ ance with the following table :
Standard Dimensions of Flanges for Discharge Connections
Slo.ts in flange
Flange thickness
Boltsandnuts: quantity and diameter
According to pipe outside diameter
equidisfantly placed on a bolt circle of the above diameter, slotted to the flange periphery. The slot width to be 18 mm
eter and of suitable length
The flange is designed to accept pipes up to a maxi­ mum internal diameter of 100 mm and shall be of steel
or other equivalent material having a flat face. This flange, together with a suitable gasket, shall be suitable for a service pressure of 6 kg/cm!.
For ships having a moulded depth of 5 metres and less, the inner diameter of the discharge connection may be 38 millimetres.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1*January 1976 or oil the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on the disposal of garbage from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
"Garbage" means .iM kinds of victual, domestic and operational waste excluding fresh fish and parts thereof, generated during the normal operation of the ship and liable to be disposed of continuously or periodically ex­ cept those substance.<twhich are defined or listed in other Regulations of this Annex.
 B Disposal of Garbage
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs C and D of (his Regulation:
a) disposal into the sea of the following is prohibited:
(i) all plastics, including but not limited to synthetic ropes, synthetic fishing nets and plastic garbage bags; and
(ii) all other garbage, including paper products, rags, glass, metal, bottles, crockery, dunnage, lining and packing materials ;
b) disposal into the sea of food wastes shall be made as far as practicable from land, but in any case not
.less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
2. When the garbage is mixed with other discharges having different disposal or discharge requirements the more stringent requirements shall apply.
C Special Requirements for Fixed and Floating Platforms r. '
1. Subject to the provisions of SuB-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph, .the disposal of any materials regulated by this Regulation is prohibited from fixed or floating plat­ forms . engaged in the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral re­ sources, and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms.
2. The disposal into the sea of food wastes may be permitted when they have passed through a comminuter or grinder from such fixed or floating platforms' located more than 12 nautical miles from land and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms. Such comminuted or ground food wastes shall be capable of passing through a screen with openings no greater than 25 millimetres.
Paragraphs B and C of this Regulation shall not apply to :
the disposal of garbage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or '
the escape o'f garbage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment provided all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage, for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the escape ; Or •
c) the accidental loss of synthetic fishing nets or syn­ thetic material incidental to the repair of such nets, provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken to prevent such loss.
Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the pro­ vision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the Baltic Sea Area for the reception of garbage, without causing undue delay to ships, and according to the needs of the ships using them.
Aromatic Oil (excluding vegetable oil) Lubricating Oils and Blending
Appendix I List of Oils *)
•) The listof oils shall not necessarily be considered a& comprehensive *
Guidelines for the Categorization of Noxious Liquid Substances
Substances which are bioaccumulated and liable to
which are highly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 4, defined by a TLm less than 1 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are moderately toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 or more, but loss than 10 ppm) when particular weight is given to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics of the substance .
Substances which are "bioaccumulated with a short retention of the order of one week or less: or which are liable to produce tainting of the -sea food ; or which are moderately toxic to acquatic life (as expressed by a Haz­ ard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 ppm or more, but less than 10 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of 10 ppm or more, but less than 100 ppm) when particular weight is given to "additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics of the substance.
Substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as
expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of sind (ausgedriickt durch Gefahrenstufe 2, bezeichnet 10 or more, but less than 100 ppm); and additionally cer- durch eine TLm von 10 oder mehr, aber weniger als tain substances which are practically non-toxic to aquatic 100 ppm ) sowie bestimmte Stoffe , die praktisch ungiftig life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a fur Wasserpflanzen und -tiere sind (ausgedriickt durch TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than 1.000 ppm) when Gefahrenstufe I, bezeichnet durch eine TLm von . 100 particular weight is given to additional factors in the oder mehr, aber weniger als 1 000 ppm), Venn zusatz- liazaid profile or to special characteristics of the sub- lichen Faktorcn im Gefahrenprofil oder besondercn
Substances which are practically non-tpxic to aquatic
life, (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a
TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than- 1.000 ppm)j or
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD); or highly hazardous to human heallh, with an LD30 of less than 5 mg/kg; or produce moderate reduction of amenities because of persistency, smell or poisonous or irrilant characteristics, possibly interfering with use of beaches; or moderately hazardous to human health, with an LD30 of 5 mg/kg or more, but less than 50 mg/kg and produce sliglit reduc- tion of amenities.
Other Liquid Substances (for the purposes of Paragraph C of Regulation 5)
Substances other than those categorized in Cate- gories A, B, C, and D above.
(Paragraph D (1) of
the Baltic Sea Area
Acetic anhydride
Alum ( 15% solution) Aminocthylethanolamine (Hydroxyethyl-ethy-
Calcium hydroxide (solution) Camphor oil
List of Noxious Liquid Substances carried in Bulk
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
- (Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
*) Asterisk indicates that tho substance has been provisionally included tn this list an4 that further data are necessary In order to complete the evaluation ol us enviioomcutal hazards, particularly m relation to living resources.
Caustic potash (Potassium hydroxide) Chloroacetic acid
para-Cymene (Isopropyltoluene) •) Decahydronaphthalene
(D.D. Soil fumigant) Diethylamine
•Dimethylamine (40*/o aqueous) Dimethylethanolamine
(2-Dimethylaminoethanol) *) Dimethylformamide
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
m IV Within
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally Included in this list and that further data are necessary in ordni to complete the evaluation of its environmental haxards, particularly in relation to itving resources.
the Baltic Sea Area
Ethylene chlorohydrin (2-Chloro-ethanol)
rleptanoic acid *) Hexamethylenediamine •)
Hydrofluoric acid (40 °/o aqueous) Hydrogen peroxide (greater than 60 °/o) Isobutyl acrylate
lsobutyl methacrylate Isobutyraldehyde Isooctane *)
lsopropylamine
Methyl acrylate Methylamyl alcohol Methylene chloride 2-Methyl-5-Ethylpyndine *) Methyl methacrylate 2-Methypentene *)
Pollution Category for oper- ■
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally included in this list and that farther data are necessary In order lo complete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, paiticularly in relation to living resouu,-«.
I II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
(Paragraph D (1) of
IV Within the Baltic Sea Area
Naphthenic acids *)
Phthalic Anhydride (molten) beta-Propiolactone *)
Propionic anhydride
n-Propylamine
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
•) Asterisk indicates (hat tho substance has been provisionally Included In this list and that further data am necessary in order to complete, the evaluation of its environmental hozards, particularly in relatfon to living resources.
1710 B Triethanolamine v D
Tritolyl phosphate (Tricresyl phosphate) *) Turpentine (wood)
Xylenes (mixed isomers) .
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph 0(1 ) of
•) Asterisk Indicates that the substance has been provisionally Included In this li«t and that further data are necessary ih order to complete
the evaluation ot Us environmental hazards, particularly In relation to living resources. 38
1 II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Butylmethacrylat
Chlorhydrine (roh) •) Chloropren *) Chlorsulfonsaure
para-Cymol (Isopropyltoluol) *) Decahydronaphthalin
Diàthylâther
Diäthylentriamin *) Diäthylenglycol-monoäthyläther
Dnsopropylàther *)
Dimethylamin (40°/o wasserhaltig) Dimethylâthanolamin
(2-Dimethylaminoàthanol) *)
Äthylenglycol-monoäthyläther (Methylkolloidlôsung) '
Isonhoron Isopropylainin
Isopropylcyclohexan . Isopren
1710 B Triäthanolamin D
Triäthylamin Trimethylbenzol •) Tritolylphosphat *)
(Trikresylphosphat) Terpentin (Holz) Vinylacetat Vinylidenchlorid *) Xylole (Isomerengemisch)
Decyl octyl alcohol Dibutyl ether Diethanolamine Diethylene glycol Dipentene
Heptene (mixed isomers)
List of other Liquid Substances . carried in Bulk
Olivenöl Polypropylenglycol iso-Propylacetat iso-Propylalkohol Propylenglycol Propylenoxyd Propvlen tetramer Propylen trimer Sorbit
Cargo Record Books for Ships carrying Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk
Name of ship ...
Cargo carrying capacity of each tank in cubic metres
Voyage from
a) ' Loading of cargo
1. Date and place of loading .
2. Name and category of cargo(es) loaded
3. Identity of tank(s) loaded
b) Transfer of cargo
4. Date of transfer
5. Identity of tank(s) (i) From (ii) To
7. If not, quantity remaining
c) Unloading of cargo
8. Date and place of unloading 9. Identity of tank(s) unloaded
11. If not, quantity remaining in tank(s)
12. Is (are) tank(s) to be cleaned? 13. Amount transferred to slop tank 14. Identity of slop tank ■
d) Ballasting of cargo tanks
15. Identity of tank(s) ballasted
16. Date and position of ship a't start oj ballasting
17. Identity of tank(s) cleaned
18. Date and location of cleaning
19. Method(s) of cleaning
20. Location of reception facility used
21. Concentration of effluent when discharge to recep­ tion facility stopped
22. Quantity remaining in tank
23. Procedure and amount of water introduced into tank in final cleaning
24. Location, date of discharge into the sea
25. Procedure andaequipment used in discharge into the sea
Signature of Master 46
 Category B, C, and D substances
26. Washing procedure used
27. Quantity of water used
28. Date, location of discharge into the sea
29. Procedure and equipment used in discharge into the sea
f) Transfer of dirty ballast water
30. Idcntity of tank(s)
31. Date and position of ship at start of discharge into the sea
32. Date and position of . ship at finish of discharge into the sea
34. Quantity discharged into the sea
35. Quantity of polluted water transferred to slop tank(s) (identify slop'tanks(s))
36. Date and port of discharge 'to reception facilities (if applicable)
g) Transfer from slop tank/disposal of residue
37. Identity of slop tank(s)
38. Quantity disposed from each tank
39. Method of disposal of residue: (a) Reception facilities
(b) Mixed with cargo
(c) Transferred to another (other) tank(s) (identify
(d) Other method
40. Date and port of disposal of residue
h) Accidental or other exceptional discharge
41. Date and time of occurrence
42. Place or position of ship at time of occurrence
43. Approximate quantity, name and category of substance
44. Circumstanccs of discharge or escape and gfcneral remarks.
Signature of Master
 Exceptions from the General Prohibition of Dumping of Waste and other Matter in the Baltic Sea Area
In accordance with Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the present Convention the prohibition of dumping shall not apply to the disposal at sea of dredged spoils provided that:
1. they do not contain significant quantities and concen­ trations of substances to be defined by the Commis­ sion and listed in Annexes I and II of the present Con­ vention ; and
2. the dumping is carried out under a prior special permit given by the appropriate national authority, either
a) within the area of the territorial sea of the Con­ tracting Party; or
b) outside the area of the territorial sea, whenever necessary, after prior consultations in the Com­ mission.
When issuing such permits the Contracting Party shall comply with the provisions in Regulation 3 of this Annex.
1. The appropriate national authority referred to in
Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the present Convention shall :
this Annex; .
b) keep records of the nature and quantities of matter permitted to be dumped and the location, time and method of dumping;
and quantities of matter that has been dumped in the Baltic Sea Area recently and up to the coming into force of the present Convention, provided that the
• dumped matter in question could be liable to cont- - aminate water or organisms in the Baltic: Sea Area, to
be caught by fishing equipment, or otherwise to give rise to harm, and the location, time and method of such dumping. .
2. The appropriate national' authority shall issue
special permits in accordance with Regulation 1 of this nach Regel 1 Sondererlaubnisse für Stoffe, die für das
Annex in respect of matter intended for dumping in the Einbringen iM Ostseegebiet bestimmt sind, wenn sie Baltic Sea Area:' *
tory or flying its flag, when the leading occurs in the territory of a State not Party to the present Conven­ tion.
3. When issuing permits under Sub-Paragraph 1 a)
with Regulation 3 of this Annex, together with such additional criteria, measures and requirements as they may consider relevant.
4. Each Contracting Party shall report to the Commis­ sion, and where appropriate to other Contracting Parties, the information specified in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regu­ lation 2 of this Annex. The procedure to be followed and
the nature of such reports shall bo determined by the Commission.
When issuing special permits according to Regulation 1 of this Annex the appropriate national au'hority shall take into account:
1. Quantity of dredged spoils to be dumped.
2. The content of the matter referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention.
3. Location (e.g. co-ordinates of the dumping area, depth and distance from coast) and its relation to areas of special interest (e.g. amenity areas, spawning, nursery and fishing areas, etc.).
4. Water characteristics, if dumping is carried out out­ side the territorial sea, consisting of:
a) hydrographic properties (e. g. temperature, salinity, density, profile);
b) chemical properties (e. g. pH, dissolved oxygen, nutrients); . -
c) biological properties (e. g. primary production and benthic animals).
The data should include sufficient information on the annual mean levels and the seasonal variation of the properties mentioned in this Paragraph.
following information:
material, and counter measures taken:
a) location (e. g. co-ordinates of the accidental dump­ ing site, depth and distance from-the coast); *.
b) method of deposit ;
. c) quantity and composition of dumped matter as well as its physical (e. g. solubility and density), chemi­ cal and biochemical * e. g. oxygen demand, nutrients), and biological properties (e. g. presence
of viruses, bacteria, yeasts, parasites);
toxicity ;
content of the substances referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention ;
dispersal characteristics (e. g. effects of currents and wind, and horizontal transport and vertical mixing);
g) water characteristics (e. g. temperature, pH, redox conditions, salinity and stratification);
h) bottom diaracteristics (e. g. topography, geological characteristics and redox conditions);
i) counter measures taken and follow-up operations i) carried out or planned.
2. General considerations and conditions:
a) possible effects on amenities (e. g. floating or stranded material, turbidity, objectionable odour, discolouration and foaming); .
 b) possible effect on marine life, fish and shellfish culture, fish stocks and fisheries, seaweed harvest­ ing and cultures,- and
c) possible effects on other uses of the sea (e.g. impairment of water quality for industrial use, underwater corrosion of structures, interference with ship operations from floating materials, inter­ ference with fishing or navigation and protection of areas of special importance for scientific or conservation purposes),,.
For the purposes of this Annex:
1. "Ship* means a vessel of any type whatsoever operating in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats , air-cushion vehicles , submersibles , floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag of any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the -coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances , means any ' release howsoever caused from a ship and in­ ' dudes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pump­
ing, emitting or emptying. Discharge" does not include:
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated offshore processing of sea-bed mineral resources ,- or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
The Contracting Parlies undertake to maintain ability to combat spillages of oil and other harmful substances on the sea. This ability shall include adequate equip­ ment, ships and manpower prepared for operations in coastal waters as well as on the high sea.
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, devel­ op and apply, individually or in co-operation, surveillance activities covering the Baltic Sea Area , . in order to spot and monitor oil and other harmful substances released into the sea.
In the case of loss overboard of harmful substances in packages, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail lank wagons, tRe Contracting Parties shall co-operate in the salvage and recovery of such packages, containers
or tanks so as to minimize the danger to the environ­ ment.
1. The Contracling Parties shall develop and apply a system for receiving, channeling and dispatching reports on significant spillages of oil 01 other harmful substances observed at sea, as well as any incident causing or likely to cause any kind oi significant pollution.
2. The Contracting Parties shall request masters of ships and pilots of aircraft to report without delay in accordance with this system on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea. Such reports should as far as possible contain the following data : time , position , wind and sea conditions , and kind , extent and probable source of the spill observed.
3. The master of a ship involved in an incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation, or other person having charge of the ship, shall without delay &nd to the fullest extent possible report in accordance with this system and with the provisions of the AppSendix to the present Annex.
4. Each- Contracting Party undertakes to issue instruc­ tions to its maritime inspection vessels and aircraft and to other appropriate services, to report to its authorities any observation or incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation. Such reports shall as far as possible contain the data referred to in Paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Regulation respectively, as well as possible indications on the spreading or drifting tendencies of the spill in question.
5. Whenever a Contracting Party is aware of a casualty or the presence of spillages of oil or other harmful substances in the Baltic Sea Area likely to constitute a serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area or the coast or related interests of any other Contracting Party, it shall without delay transmit all relevant information thereon to the Contracting Party which may be affected by the pollutant and, as regards ship casualty incidents, to the Administration of the ship involved .
- Each Contracting Party shall request masters of ships flying its flag to provide, in case of an incident, on re­ quest by the proper authorities, such detailed informa­ tion about the ship and its cargo which ; is relevant to actions for preventing or combatting pollution of the sea, and to co-operate with these authorities.
1. a) The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible agree bilaterally or multilaterally on those regions of the Baltic Sea Area in which they will take action for combatting or salvage activities whenever a significant spillage of oil or other harmful substances or any in­ cidents causing or likely to cause pollution within the Baltic Sea Area have occurred or are likely to occur. Such agreements shall not prejudice any other agree­ ments concluded between Contracting Parties concerning the same subject. The neighbouring States shall ensure the harmonization of the different agreements. The Contracting Parties shall inform each other about such agreements.
The Contracting Parties may ask the Commission for assistance to reach agreement, if needed. *
 b) The Contracting Party within whose region a situation as described in Regulation 1 of this Annex occurs shall make the necessary assessments of the situation' and take adequate action in order to avoid or minimize subsequent pollution effects and shall keep drifting parts of the spillage under observation until no further action is called for.
2. In the case that such a spillage is drifting or is likely to drift into a region, where another Contracting Party should take action for purposes as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of this Regulation, that Party shall without delay be informed of the situation and the actions that have been taken.
A Contracting Party requiring assistance for combatting spillages of oil or other harmful substances, at sea is entitled to call for assistance by other Contracting Parties, starting with those who seem likely also to be affected by the spillage. Contracting Parties called upon for assistance in accordance with this Regulation shall use their best endeavours to bring such assistance. .
1. The Contracting Parties shall provide information to the other Contracting Parties and the Commission about
a) their national organization for dealing with spillages at sea of oil and other harmful substances;
. b) . national regulations and other matters which have a direct bearing on combatting pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances ; *
dispatching reports of pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances;
d) the competent authorities for dealing with questions concerning measures of mutual assistance, informa­ tion and co-operation between the Contracting Parties v-, according to this Annex; ;
e) . actions taken in accordance with Regulation 8 of this . e) die nach Regel 8 getroffenen Maßnahmen.
2. The Contracting Parties shall exchange information of research and development programs and resultsr con­ cerning ways in which pollution by oil and other harmful substances at sea may be dealt with and experiences in combatting such pollution.
The authorities referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Regulation 9 of this Annex shall establish direct contact and co-operate in operational matters.
on Incidents Involving Harmful Substances
Duty to Report
1. The Master of a ship involved in an incident re­ ferred to in Regulation 3 of this Appendix, or other per­ son having charge of the ship, shall report the particulars of such incident without delay and to the fullest extent possible in accordance with the provisions of this Appendix .
2. In the event of the ship referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation being abandoned, or in the event of a report from such ship being incomplete or unobtainable, the owner, charterer, manager or operator of the ship, or their agents shall, to the fullest extent possible assume the obligations placed upon the Master under the provi­ sions of this Appendix.
1. Each report shall be made by radio whenever possible, but in any case by the fastest channels avail­ able at the time the report is made. Reports made by radio shall be given the highest possible priority.
2. Reports shall be directed to the appropriate officer
tion 9 of Annex VI of the present Convention.
When to Make Reports
The report shall be made whenever an incident in­ volves :
a) a discharge other than as permitted under the present Convention ; or
b) a discharge permitted under, the present Convention
by virtue of the fact that :
(i) it is for the purpose of securing tlie safety of a ship or 'saving life at sea ; or
(ii) it results from damage to the ship or its equip­ ment; or
c) a discharge of a harmful substance for the purpose of combatting s specific pollution incident or for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abate­ ment or control ; or
d) the probability of a discharge referred to in Sub- Paragraph a), b), or c) of this Regulation...
Contents of Report .
a) the identity of ship;
b) the time and date of the occurrence of the incident;
c) the geographic position of the ship when the inciderft occurred ;
 <1) the wind and sea conditions prevailing at the time of - the incident; and
-c) relevant details respecting the condition of the ship.
2. Each report shall contain, in particular:
a) a clear indication or description of the harmful substances involved, including, if possible, the correct technical names of such substances (trade names should not be used in place of the correct technical names) ;
• b) a statement or estimate of the quantities, concentra­ tions and likely conditions of harmful substances discharged or likely to be discharged into the sea;
c) where relevant, a description of the packaging and identifying marks; and
d) if possible the name of the consignor, consignee or manufacturer.
3. Each Teport shall clearly indicate whether the harm­ ful substance discharged, or likely to be discharged is oil, a noxious liquid substance, a noxious solid substance, or– a noxious gaseous substance and whether such substance was or is carried in bulk or contained in packaged form, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons.
4. Each report shall be supplemented as necessary by any other relevant information requested by a recipient of the Teport or which the person sending the report deems appropriate.
Supplementary Report
Any person who is obliged under the provisions of this Appendix to send a report shall, when possible;
a) supplement the initial report, as necessary, with in- formation concerning further developments ; and
b) comply as fully as possible with requests from affect- ed States for additional information concerning the incident.
measures to control and strictly limit pollution by noxious substances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention.
To this end they shall/ inter alia/ as appropriate co-operate in
the development and adoption of specific programmes/ guidelines/ standards cr regulations concerning discharges/ environmental quality and products containing such substances and materials and their use.
" Article 6 -; Principles cnd: obligations concerning land-based pollution . 1. The Contracting Parties shall take ail appropriate measures to
control and minimize lartd-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. In particular/ the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Con­ vention shall not be introduced into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior- special permit/ which may be periodically reviewed/ by the appropriate
on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area
CONSCIOUS of the Indispensable economic, social and cultural values of the marine environment of the
Baltic Sea Area and its living resources for the peoples of the Contracting Parties; _ .
BEARING in mind the exceptional hydrographlc and ecological characteristics of the Baltic Sea Area and the sensitivity of its living resources to changes in the environment;
NOTING the rapid development of human activities
at the Baltic Sea Area, the considerable population living
their intensive agriculture and
NOTING with deep concern the increasing pollution
pipelines, dumping and normal operations of vessels as well as through airborne pollutants;
CONSCIOUS , of the responsibility of the Contracting Parties to protect and enhance the values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area for the benefit of
their peoples;
RECOGNIZING that the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of "the Baltic Sea Area are -
tasks that cannot effectively be accomplished by national efforts only but that also close regional co-operation and other appropriate international measures aiming at fulfil­ ling these tasks are urgently needed ;
NOTING that' the relevant recent international con­
ventions even after having entered into force for the
requirements to protect and enhance the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area ;
NOTING the importance of scientific and technologi­ cal co-operation in the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of the Bailie Sea Area, particu­ larly between the Contracting Parties;
DESIRING to develop further regional co-operation in the Baltic Sea Area? the possibilities and requirements of which were confirmed by the signing of the Conven­ tion on Fishing and Conservation o( the Living Resources in the Baltic Sea and the Bolts. Gdansk 15)73;
 CONSCIOUS of the importance of regional intergov­
ernmental co-operation in the protection of the marine
environment of the Baltic Sea Area as an integral part of
For the purposes of the present Convention "the Baltic Sea Area" shall be the Baltic Sea proper with the Gulf of Bothnia, the Gulf of Finland and the entrance to the Baltic Sea bounded by the parallel of the Skaw in the Skagerrak at 57 ° 44' 8" N. It does not include internal waters of the Contracting Parties.
(i) any deliberate disposal at sea of wastes or
other matter from vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;
(ii) any deliberate disposal at sea of vessels, air­ craft, platforms or other manrjnade structures at sea;
For the purposes of the present Convention:
1. "Pollution" means introduction by man, directly or ■ indirectly, of . substances or energy into the marine environment, including estuaries, resulting in such deleterious effects as hazard to human health, harm to living resources and marine life, hindrance to legiti- ■ mate uses of the sea including fishing, impairment of the quality for use of sea water, and reduction of
2. "Land-based pollution' means pollution of the sea 2. Der Ausdruck .Verschmutzung" vom Land aus" be­
caused by discharges from land reaching the -sea waterborne, airborne or directly from the cdast, in­ cluding outfalls from pipelines;
b) "Dumping" does not include:
(i) the disposal at sea of wastes or other matter incidental to, or derived from the normal opera­ tions of vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-m'ade structures at sea and their equip­ ment, other than wastes or other matter trans­ ported by or to vessels, aircraft, platforms or
• other man-made structures at sea, operating for the purpose of disposal of such matter or de­ rived from the treatment of such wastes or
other matter on such vessels, aircraft, platforms or structures,-
(ii) placement of matter for a purpose, other than the mere disposal • thereof, provided that such
 placement is not contrary to the aims of the present Convention;
4. "Vessels and aircraft* means waterborne or airborne craft of any type whatsoever. This expression includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft whether self-propelled or not, and fixed or floating platforms; '
5. "Oil" means petroleum in any form including crude oil, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products;
6. "Harmful substance" means any hazardous, noxious, or other substance, which, if introduced into the sea, is liable to cause pollution;
probable discharge into the sea of harmful substance, or effluents containing such a substance.
Fundamental principles and obligations . ■
1. The Contracting Parties shall individually or jointly
- relevant measures in order to prevent and abate pollu­ tion and to protect and enhance the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
(2) Die Vertragsparteien sorgen nach besten Kräften ours to ensure that the implementation of the present dafür, daß die Durchführung dieses Übereinkommens
2. The Contracting Parties shall use their best endeav­ Convention shall not cause an increase in the pollution
of sea areas outside the Baltic Sea Area.
3: While the provisions of the present Convention do not apply to internal waters, which are under the sover­
to ensure that the purposes of the present Convention will be obtained in these waters.
4. The present Convention shall not apply to any
to the
1 . The present Convention shall
tion of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, Meeresumwelt des Ostseegebiels, welches das Wasser which comprises the water-body and the sea-bed includ­ und den Meeresgrund einschließlich ihrer lebenden
protec­ ing their living resources and other forms of marine life.
2. Without prejudice to the sovereign rights in regard to their territorial sea, each Contracting Party shall im­ plement the provisions of the present Convention within its territorial sea through its national authorities.
However, each Contracting Party shall ensure, by the Jedoch stellt jede Vertragspartei durch geeignete, den
The Contracting Parties undertake to counteract the
introduction, whether airborne, waterborne or otherwise,
into the Baltic Sea Area of hazardous substances as Ostseegebiet entgegenzuwirken, gleichviel ob sie auf specified in Annex I of the present Convention.
adoption of appropriate measures not impairing the oper­ ations or operational capabilities of such ships and air­ craft owned or operated by it, that such ships and air­ craft act in a manner consistent, so far as is reasonable and practicable, with the present Convention.
Principles and obligations concerning . land-based pollution
1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollu­ tion by noxious substances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention. To this end they shall , inter alia , as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines, standards or regulations concerning dis­ charges, environmental quality, and products containing such substances and materials and their use.
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be. introduced into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit, which may be periodically reviewed, by the appropriate national au­ thority.
4. The appropriate national authority will inform the Commission referred to in Article 12 of the present Con­ vention of the quantity, quality and way of discharge if it considers that significant quantities of substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention were discharged.
5. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to establish and adopt common criteria for issuing permits for dis­ charges. „
6. To control and minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea" Area by harmful substances the Contracting Parties shall, in addition to the provisions of Article 5 of the present Convention, aim at attaining the goals and applying the criteria enumerated in Annex III of the present Conven­ tion.
7. I; the discharge from a watercourse, flowing through the territories of two or more Contracting Parties or forming a boundary between them, is liable to cause pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, the Contracting Parties concerned shall in com­ mon take appropriate measures in order to prevent and abate such pollution.
8. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to use best practicable means in order to minimize the airborne pol­ lution of the Baltic Sea Area by noxious substances.
Prevention of pollution from ships
1. In order to protect the Baltic Sea Area from pollu­ tion by deliberate, negligent or accidental release of oil, harmful substances other than oil, and by the discharge of sewage and garbage from ships, the Contracting Par­ ties shall take measures as set out in Annex IV of the present Convention.
2. The Contracting Parties shall develop and apply
uniform requirements for the capacity and location of
facilities for the reception of residues of oil, harmful-
substances other thetn oil, including sewage and garbage,
taking into account inter alia the special needs of pas­ und wenden diese an, wobei sie unter anderem die
senger ships and combination carriers. *
 Article 6 Pleasure cralt
The Contracting Parties shall, in addition to imple­
asure craft activities. The measures shall inter alia deal
with adequate reception facilities for wastes from ple­ asure craft.
Article 9 Prévention of dumping
1. The Contracting Parties shall, subject to Paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article, prohibit dumping in the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Dumping of dredged spoils shall be subject to a prior special permit by the appropriate national authority in accordance with the provisions of Annex V- of the pres­ ent Convention.
3. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure com­ pliance with the provisions of this Article by vessels and aircraft:
a) registered in its territory or flying its flag;
b) loading, within its territory or territorial sea, matter which is to be dumped; or
c) believed to be engaged in dumping within its ter­ ritorial sea.
4. The provisions of this Article shall not apply when the safety of human life or of a vessel or aircraft at sea is threatened by the complete destruction or total loss of the vessel OT aircraft, or . in any case which constitutes a danger to human life, if dumping appears to be the only way of averting the threat and if there is every probabil­ ity that the damage consequent upon such dumping will be less than would otherwise occur. Such dumping shall be so conducted as to minimize the likelihood o. damage to human or marine life.
3. Dumping made under the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Article shall be reported and dealt with in ac­ cordance with Annex VI of the present Convention and shall also be reported forthwith to the Commission refer­ red to in Article 12 of the present Convention in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Regulation 4 of Annex V of the present Convention.
6. In case of dumping suspected to be in contravention of the provisions ol this Article the Contracting Parties shall co-operate in investigating the matter in accordance with Regulation 2 of Annex IV of the present Conven­ tion.
Exploration and exploitation oi the sea-bed and its subsoil
Each Contracting Party shall take all appropriate meas­ ures in order to prevent pollution of the marine en­ vironment of the Baltic Sea Area resulting from explora­ tion or exploitation of its part of the sea-bed and its subsoil or from any associated activities thereon. It shall also ensure that"adequate equipment is at hand to start an immediate abatement of pollution in that area.
The Contracting Parties shall take measures and co­ operate as set out in Annex VI of the present Conven­ tion in order to eliminate or minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea Area by oil or other harmful substances.
Institutional and organizational framework
t. The Baltic Marine Environment Protection Com­ mission , hereinafter referred to as " the Commission ", is hereby established for the purposes of the present Con­ vention .
2. The chairmanship of the Commission shall be given tor each Contracting Party in turn in alphabetical orrler of the names of the States in the English language.
The Chairman shall serve for a period of two years, and cannot during the period of his chairmanship serve as representative of his country.
Should the chairmanship fall vacant, the Contracting Party chairing the Commission shall nominate a suc­ cessor to remain in office until the term of chairmanship of that Contracting Party expires.
3. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at least once a year upon convocation by the Chairman. Upon the request of a Contracting Party, provided it is en­ dorsed by another Contracting Party, the ChalVman shall, as soon as possible, summon an extraordinary meeting at such time and place as the Chairman determines, how­ ever, not later than ninety days from the date of the sub­ mission of the request.
4. The first meeting of the Commission shall be called by the Depositary Government and shall take place within a period of ninety days from the date fol­ lowing the entry into force of the present Convention.
5. Fach Contracting Party shall have one vote in the Commission. Unless otherwise provided under the pres­ ent Convention, the Commission shall take its decisions unanimously.
The duties of the Commission
The duties of the Commission shall be:
a) To keep the implementation of the present Conven­ tion under continuous observation ;
b) To make 'recommendations on measures relating to the purposes of the present Convention;
c) To keep under review the contents of the present Convention including its Annexes and to recommend to the Contracting Parties such amendments to the present Convention including its Annexes as may be required including changes in the lists of substances and materials as well as the adoption of new An­ nexes ;
d) To define pollution control criteria, objectives for the reduction of pollution, and objectives concerning meas­ ures, particularly according to Annex III of the pres­ ent Convention ;
e) To promote m close co-operation with appropriate e)
governmental bodies, taking into consideration Sub- Paragraph f) of this Article, additional measure's to protect the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area and for this purpose:
 (i) to receive, process, summarize and disseminate from available sources relevant scientific, tech­
nological and statistical information; and
(ii) to promote scientific and technological research;
f) To seek , when appropriate , the services of competent regional and other international organizations to col­ laborate in scientific and technological research as well as other relevant activities pertinent to the ob­ jectives of the present Convention;
g) To assume such other functions as may be appro­ priate under the terms of the present Convention.
Administrative provisions for the Commission
1 . The working language of the Commission , shall English .
2. The Commission shall adopt its Rules of Procedure.
3. The office of the Commission, hereafter referred to as the "Secretariat", shall be in Helsinki.
4 . . The Commission shall appoint an Executive Secre­ tary and make provisions for the appointment of such other personnel as may be necessary, and determine the duties, terms and conditions of the Executive Secretary.
5. The Executive Secretary shall be the chief adminis­ trative official of the Commission and shall perform the functions that are necessary for the administration of the present Convention, the work of the Commission and other tasks entrusted to the Executive Secretary by the Commission and its Rules of Procedure .
Financial provisions for the Commission
1. The Commission shall adopt its Financial Rul'is.
2. The Commission shall adopt an annual or biennial for the fiscal period following thereafter.
3. The total amount of the budget, including any sup­ plementary budget adopted by the Commission, shall be contributed by the Contracting Parties in equal parts, unless the Commission unanimously decides otherwise .
4. Each Contracting Party shall pay the expenses related to the participation in the Commission of its rep­ resentatives, experts and advisers.
Scleutific and techuological co-operation
1. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other interna­ tional organizations , to co-operate in the fields of science , technology and other research, and to exchange data as well as other scientific information for the puiposes of the present Convention.
2. Without prejudice to Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Ar­ ticle 4 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties undertake directly, "or when appropiiate through com­ petent regional or other international organizations, to promote studies , untertake , support or contribute to prog­ rammes aimed at developing -ways and means for the
 • assessment of the nature and extent of pollution , path­ ways, exposures, risks and remedies in tho Bailie Sea Area, and particularly to develop alternative methods of treatment, disposal and elimination of such matter and substances that are likely to cause pollution of the ma- line environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
3. Tho Contracting Parties undertake direclly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other inter­ national organizations , and , on the basis of the informa­ tion and data acquired pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, to co-operate in developing inter-com- parable observation methods, in performing baseline studies and in establishing complementary or joint prog­ rammes for monitoring.
4. The organization and scope of work connected with the implementation of tasks referred to in the preceding Paragraphs should primarily be outlined by.the Com­ mission.
Article. 17 Responsibility for damage
The Contracting Parties undertake, as soon as pos­ sible, jointly to develop and accept rules concerning responsibility for damage resulting from acts or omis­ sions in contravention of the present Convention, includ­ ing, inter alia, limits of responsibility, criteria and proce­ dures for the determination of liability and available remedies.
Article 18 Settlement of disputes
1. In case of a dispute between Contracting Parties as to the interpretation or application of the present Con­ vention , they should seek a solution by negotiation . If the Parties concerned cannot reach agreement they should seek the good offices of or jointly request the mediation by a third Contracting Party, a qualified international org? rization or a qualified person.
2. If the Parties concerned have not been able to re­ solve their dispute through negotiation or have been unable to agree on measures as described above, such disputes shall be, upon common agreement, submitted to an ac'.-hoc arbitration tribunal, to a permanent- arbitra­ tion tribunal, or to the International Court of Justice.
' • Article 19 Safeguard of certain freedoms
Nothing in the present Convention shall be construed as infringing upon the freedom of navigation, fishing, marine scientific research and other legitimate uses of the high seas, as well as upon the right of innocent pas­ sage through the territorial sea.
Article 20 Status of Annexes
The Annexes attached to the present Convention form an integral part of the Convention.
Relation to other Conventions
The provisions of the present Convention shall be wi'hont prejudice to 'he rights and obligations of the
 Contracting Parties under treaties concluded previously as well as under treaties which may be concluded in the .'uture, furthering and developing the general principles of the Law of the Sea that the present Convention is based upon and inparticular provisions concerning the prevention of pollution of the marine environment.
> Révision ol the Convention
A conference for the purpose of a general revision of - Mit Zustimmung der Vertragsparteien oder auf Er­
the present Convention may be convened with the con­ sent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission.
Amendments to the Articles of the Convention
posed amendment shall be submitted to the Depositary Government and communicated by it to all Contracting Parties, which shall inform the Depositary Government of either their acceptance or rejection of the amendment as soon as possible after the receipt of the communica­ tion. "
The amendment shall enter into force ninety days after the Depositary Government has received notifications of acceptance of that amendment from all Contracting Par­ ties.
' 2. With the consent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission a conference may be con­ vened for the purpose of amending the present Conven­ tion.
Amendments to the Annexes and the adoption . of Annexes
tracting Parties by the Depositary Government and con­ sidered in the Commission. If adopted by the Commis­ sion, the amendment shall be communicated to the Con­ tracting Parties and recommended for acceptance.
2. Such amendment shall be deemed to have been ac­ cepted at the end of a period determined by the Com­ mission unless within that period anyone of the Con­ tracting Parties has objected to the amendment. The ac­ cepted amendment shall enter into force on a date deter­ mined by the Commission.
1. Any amendment to the Annexes proposed by a Con­
The period determined by the Commission shall be pro­
longed for an additional period of six months and the
date of entry into force of the amendment postponed
accordingly, if, in exceptional cases, any Contracting anzunehmen, daß jedoch die verfassungsrechtlichen Er­ Party before the expiring of the period determined by fordernisse für die Annahme in ihrem Staat noch nicht the Commission informs , the Depositary Government,
that, although it intends to accept the proposal, the con­ stitutional requirements for such an acceptance are not yet fulfilled in its State.
3. An Annex to the present Convention may be adopted in accordance with the provisions of this Ar­ ticle.
4. The Depositary Government shall inform all Con­ tracting Parties of any amendments or the adoption of a new Annex which enter into force under this Article and of the dale on which such amendment or new An­ nex enters into forcfi.
• 5. Any objection under this Article shall be made by
 which shall notify all Contracting Parties and the Ex­ notifiziert allen Vertragsparteien und dem Exekutiv-
ecutive Secretary of any such notification and the date of its receipt.
1. The provisions of the present Convention shall not be subject lo reservations.
2. The provision of ParagrapW 1 of this Article does not prevent a Contracting Party from suspending for a period not exceeding one year the application of an Annex of the present Convention or part thereof or an amendment thereto tiller the Annex in rjuestion or the amendment thereto has entered into force.
3. If after the entry into force of the present Conven­ tion a Contracting Party invokes the provisions of Para­ graph 2 of this Article it shall inform the other Contract­ ing Parties, at the time of the adoption by the Commis­ sion of an amendment to sn Annex - or a new Annex, of those provisions which will be suspended in accordance with Paragraph 2 of this Article. *
Signature, ratiiication, approvai, and accession
1. The present Convention shall be open for signature in Helsinki on 22 March 1974 by the Baltic Sea States participating in the Diplomatic Conference on the Protec­ tion of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, held in Helsinki from 18 to 22 March 1974. The present Convention shall be open for accession to any other State interested in fulfilling the aims and purposes of the present Convention, provided that this Staje is invited by all the Contracting Parties. ,
2. The present Convention shall be subject to ratifica­ tion or approval by the States which have signed it.
3. The instruments of ratification, approval, or acces­ sion shall be deposited with the Government of Finland, which will perform the duties of the Depositary Govern­ ment.
Article 27 Entry into force
The present Convention shall enter into force two months aftef the deposit of the severith instrument of ratification or approval.
Article 28 Withdrawal
1. At any tim^ after the expiry of five years from the dale of entry into force of the present Convention any Contracting Party may, by giving written notification to
Convention . The withdrawal shall take effect for such Contracting Party on the thirty-first day of December of the year which follows the year in which the Depositary Government was notified of the withdrawal.
2. In case of notification of withdrawal by a Contract­ considering the effect of the withdrawal.
The present Convention has been drawn up in a single copy in. the English language. Official translations into
 the Danish, Finnish, German, Polish, Russian, and Swed- ish languages shall be prepared and deposiled with the signed original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipoten­
DONE AT HELSINKI, this twenty-second day of March' . GESCHEHEN ZU HELSINKI am 22. März 1974 one thousand nine hundred and seventy-four.
 its derivatives DDE and DDD.
2. PCB's (polychlorinated biphenyls).
The protection of the Baltic Sea Area from pollution
by the substances listed below can involve the use of
appropriate technical means, prohibitions and regulations geeignete technische Maßnahmen, durch Verbote und of the transport, trade, handling, application, and final Vorschriften über Beförderung, Handel, Handhabung, An­
 Noxious Substances and Materials
The following substances and materials are listed for the purposes of Article 6 of the present Convention.
The list 1st valid for substances and materials intro­
duced as waterborne into the marine environment. The
practicable means to prevent harmful substances and materials from being introduced as airborne into the Baltic Sea Area.
1. Mercury, cadmium, and their compounds.
2. Antimony, arsenic, beryllium, chromium, copper, lead, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, tin, vanadium, zinc, and their compounds, as well as elemental phos­ phorus.
3. Phenols and their derivatives.
4. Phthalic acid and its derivatives.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and their deriva­ tives.
Persistent toxic organosilicic compounds.
Persistent pesticides, including organophosphoric and organostannic pesticides, herbicides, slimicides and chemicals used for the preservation of wood, timber, wood pulp, cellulose, paper, hides and 'textiles, hot covered by the provisions of Annex I of the present" Convention.
Acids , alkalis and surface concentrations or big quantities.
Oil and wastes of petrochemical and other industries containing lipid-soluble substances.
Substances having adverse effects an the taste and/ or smell of products for .human consumption from the sea, or effects on taste, smell, colour, transparency or other characteristics of the water seriously reduc­ ing its amenity values.
Materials and substances which may float, remain 14. in suspension'or sink, and which may seriously inter­
fere with any legitimate use of the sea.
Lignin substances contained in industrial waste wat­ ers.
16. The chelators EDTA (ethylenedinitrilotetraacetic acid
or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) and DTPA (die­ thylenetriaminopentaacetic acid).
 Goals, Criteria and Measures concerning the Prevention of Land-Based Pollution
In accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties shall endeav­ our to attain Die goals and apply the criteria . and measures enumerated in this Annex in order to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area. .
1. Municipal sewage shall be treated in an appropriate way so that the amount of organic matter does not cause harmful changes in the oxygen content of the Baltic Sea Area and the amount of nutrients does not cause harmful eutrophication of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Municipal sewage shall also be treated in an ap­ propriate. way to ensure-that the hygienic quality, and in particular epidemiological and toxicological.safety, of the receiving sea area is maintained at a level which does not cause harm to human health, and in a way that under the given composition of the sewage no significant amount of such harmful substances as are listed in An­ nexes 1 and II of the present Convention is formed.
3. The polluting load of industrial wastes shall be minimized in an appropriate way in order to reduce the amount of harmful substances, organic matter and nutrients.
5. The discharge of cooling water from nuclear power plants or other kinds of industries using large amounts of water shall be effected in a way which minimizes the pollution of the marine environment Of the Baltic Sea Area.
4. The means referred to in Paragraph 3 of this Annex
shall in particular include minimization ot production
and improvement of qualifications for water treatment.
In the treatment of waste water mechanical, chemidal,
biological and other measures, according to the quality
of the waste water, and as required to maintain or im­
prove the quality of the recipient water, shall be applied.
6. The Commission will define pollution control criteria, objectives for reduction of pollution and objectives con­
 Prevention oi Pollution from Ships Regulation 1
The Contracting Parties shall as appropriate co-operate and assist each other in initiating action by the Inter- Goveniniental Maritime Consultative Organization to develop :
a) international rules for navigation of deep draught ships in narrow and shallow waters in international waters of the Baltic Sea Area and in the entrances
to the Baltic Sea for the prevention of collisions, strandings and groundings;
b) an international radio reporting system for large ships en route within the Baltic Sea Area as well as for
„'ships carrying a significant amount of a harmful substance .
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, as appropriate assist each other in investigating viola­ tions of the existing legislation on antipollution meas­ ures, whidi have occurred or are suspected to have occurred within the Baltic Sea Area. This assistance may include but is not limited to inspection by the competent authorities of oil record books, cargo record books, log books and engine log books and taking oil samples for analytical identification purposes and in respect of the system of tagging oil residues.
For the purposes of this Annex :
1. "Ship" means a vessel of any type whatsoever operat­ ing in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration* means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag Ot. any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal State concerned.
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances , means any release howsoever caused from a ship and includes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pumping, emitting or emptying ;
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping*of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , - exploitation and asso-
 cnited off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral resources; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
4. "Nearest land". The term "from the nearest land"
means from the baseline from which the territorial sea
of the territory in question is established in accord­ ance with international law.
5. The term "jurisdiction" shall be interpreted in accord­ ance with international law in force at the time of application or interpretation of this Annex.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1 January 1977 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on methods /or the prevention of pollution by oil -from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
" Oil " means petroleum in any form
oil , . fuel oil , sludge , oil refuse and
(other than petrochemicals which are subject to the provisions of Regulation 5 of this Annex) and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing* includes the substances listed in Appendix I to this An'nex. ~
"Oily mixture* means a mixture with any oil content.
'Oil fuel" means any oil used as fuel in connection with the propulsion and auxiliary machinery of the ship in which such oil is carried.
"Oil tanker" means a ship constructed or adapted 4. primarily to carry oil in bulk in its cargo spaces and includes combination carriers and .any "chemical tanker" as defined in Regulation 5 of this Annex when
it is carrying a cargo or part cargo of oil in bulk.
6. "Clean ballast" means the ballast in a tank which 6. since oil was last carried therein has been so cleaned
that effluent therefrom if it were discharged from a
ship which is stationary into clean calm water on a clear day would not produce visible traces of oil
on the surface of the water or on adjoining shore lines or cause a sludge or emulsion.to be deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining shore lines. If the ballast is discharged through an oil dischaige monitoring and control system approved by the Administration, evidence based on such a system to the effect that the oil content of the effluent did not exceed 15 parts per million shall be determinative that the ballast was clean, notwithstanding the presence of visible traces.
5. "Combination carrier" means a ship designed to carry either oil or solid cargoes in bulk.
including refined products
 7. 'Segregated ballast" means the ballast water intro­ duced into a tank which is completely separated from the, cargo oil and oil fuel system and which is permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious substances as variously defined in the Regula­ tions of this Annex.
8 Control of Discharge of Oil
1. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures from any oil tanker and-any ship of 400 tons gross tonnage and above other than an oil tanker shall
be prohibited, while in the Baltic Se
b) such ships while in the Baltic Sea Area shall retain on board all oil drainage and sludge, dirty ballast and tank washing waters and discharge them only to reception facilities.
effluent without dilution does not exceed 15 parts per million or alternatively when all of the following condi­ tions are satisfied :
(i) the ship is proceeding en route ;
(ii) the oil content of the effluent is less than 100 parts per million ; and
(iii) the discharge is made as far as practicable from the land, but in no case less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land ; *
b) no discharge into the sea shall contain chemicals or other substances in quantities or concentrations which are hazardous to the marine environment or chemicals
2. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this
Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oiL* or oily
mixtures from a ship of less than 400 tons gross tonnage,
other than an oil tanker, shall be prohibited while in the
Baltic Sea Area, except when the oil content of the das Schiff im Ostseegebiet aufhält, es sei denn, daß der
or other substances introduced for the purpose of circum­
c) the oil residues which cannot be discharged into the sea in compliance with Sub-Paragraph 2a) of this Paragraph shall be retained on board or discharged to reception facilities.
3. The provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to the discharge of clean or segregated ballast. '
4. Whenever visible traces of oil are observed -on or
below the surface of the water in the immediate vicinity
of a ship or its wake, the Contracting Parties should, to
the extent they are reasonably able to do so, promptly parteien, soweit dies zumutbar und möglich ist, um­ investigate the facts bearing on the issue of whether gehend die mit der Frage, ob ein Verstoß gegen diese there has been. a. violation of the provisions of this Regel vorliegt, zusammenhängenden Tatsachen unter­
Regulation. The investigation should include, in particu­ lar, the wind and sea conditions, the track and speed of the ship, other possible sources of the visible traces in the vicinity, and any relevant oil discharge records.
Paragraph B of this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the disdiarge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or
resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment:
 (i) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge ; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted Tsither with intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or
c) the discharge into the- sea of substances containing oil, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution in­ cidents in order to minimize the damage from pollu­ tion. Any such discharge shall be subject to the approval of any Contracting Party in whose jurisdic­ tion it is contemplated the discharge will occur.
ft Special Requirements for Drilling Rigs and other Platfo.rms
Fixed and floating drilling rigs when engaged in the exploration , exploitation and associated offshore process­ ing of sea-bed mineral resources and other platforms shall "comply with the requirements of this Regulation applicable to ships of 400 tons gross tonnage and above Other than oil tankers, except that:
a) they shall keep a record of all operations involving oil or oily mixture discharges, in a form approved by the Administration; and
b) subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, the discharge into the seaf of oil or oily mixtures shall be prohibited except 'when the oil content of the discharge without dilution docs not exceed 15 parts per million.
K Reception Facilities of the Baltic Sea Area
The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure that not ' later than 1 January 1977 all oil loading terminals and repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area are provided with facilities adequate for the reception and treatment of all the dirty ballast and tank washing waters from , oil tankers. In addition all ports, of the area shall be provided with adequate reception facilities for other residues and oily mixtures from all ships. Such facilities shall have adequate capacity to meet the needs of the ships using them without causing undue delay.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible, but
not later than 1 January 1977 or at a date not later
than one year after the date of the entry into force of
the present Convention, whichever occurs later, decide
upon a date from which the provisions of Paragraphs A
to D of this Regulation on the disdiarge of noxious ger Stoffe als Massengut aus Schiffen, die im Ostsee­ liquid substances in bulk from ships while operating in gebiet betrieben werden, Anwendung finden. ■
the Baltic Sea Area shall apply.
adapted primarily to ratry a cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk and includes an "oil tanker" as
 defined in Regulation 4 of this Annex when carrying a cargo or part cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk .
2. "Clean ballast" means ballast carried in a tank which, since it was last used to carry a cargo containing a substance in Category A, B, C, or D has been thor­ oughly cleaned and the residues resulting therefrom have been discharged and the tank emptied in accord­ ance with the appropriate requirements of this Regula­ tion.
3. "Segregated ballast" means ballast -water introduced into a lank permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious liquid substances as variously defined in the Regulations of this Annex, and which is completely separated from the cargo and oil fuel system .
4. "Liquid substances" are those having a vapour pres­ sure not exceeding 2.8 kp/cm! at a temperature of 37.8 °C.
5. "Noxious liquid substance " means any substance designated in Appendix III to this Annex or provi­ sionally'assessed under the provisions of Sub-Para­ graph 4 of Paragraph 6 of this Regulation as falling into Category A, B, C, or D:
B Categorization and Listing of Noxious Liquid Substances
1. For the purposes of this Regulation noxious liquid substances shall be divided into four categories as fol­ lows:
a) Category A – noxious liquid substances .which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a major hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause serious harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of stringent anti-pollution measures ;
b) Category B – noxious liquid substances which, if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal- lasling operations would present a hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause harm to amenities or other legitimate' uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of special anti-pollu­ tion measures:
c) Category C – noxious liquid substances which if c) Gruppe C schädliche flüssige Stoffe, die, wenn sie
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a minor hazard to either marine , resources or human health or cause
minor harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore require special operational conditions :
d) Category D – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a recognizable hazard to cither marine resources or human health or cause minimal harm to amenities or other legiti­ mate uses of the sea . and therefore require some attention in operational conditions.
 2. Guidelines for use in the categorization of noxious liquid substances are given in Appendix II to this Annex.
3. The list of noxious liquid substances carried in bulk and presently categorized which are subject to the provi­ sions of this Regulation is set out in Appendix III to this Annex.
4. Whore it is proposed to carry a liquid substance in bulk which has not been categorized under Sub-Para­ graph 1 ot this Paragraph or 'evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph C of this Regulation the Contracting Parlies involved in the proposed operation shall establish and agree on a provisional assessment for the proposed operation on the basis of the guidelines referred to in Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph. Until full agreement between the Governments involved has been reached, the substance shall be carried under the most severe conditions proposed.
1. The substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex have been evaluated and found to fall outside the Categories A, B, C, and D, as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph B of this Regulation because they are presently considered to present no harm to human health, marine resources, amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea, when discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or deballasting operations.
2. The discharge of bilge or ballast water or other residues or mixtures containing only substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex shall not be subject to any requirement of this Regulation.
3. The discharge into the sea of cleaft ballast or ment of this Regulation,
D Discharge of Noxious Liquid Substances
Subject to the provisions of Paragraph E of this Regu­ lation :
1. The discharge into the sea of substances in Category A as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of Para­ graph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures c'ontaining such substances shall be prohibited. If tanks containing such substances or mixtures are to be washed, the resulting residues shall be discharged to a reception facility which the Contract­ ing Parties shall provide in accordance with Paragraph H of this Regulation, until the concentration of the sub­ stance in the effluent to such facility is at or below the residual concentration prescribed for that substance in column IV of Appendix III to this Annex and until the tank is empty. Provided that the residue then remaining in the tank is subsequently diluted by the addition of a volume of water of not less than 5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, it may be discharged into the sea when all the following conditions are also satisfied:
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a -speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled .ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled ;
b) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account the location of the seawater intakes; and .
c) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than
12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not than 25 metres.
 2. The discharge into the sea of substances in Category B as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of Para­ graph B of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank wa.hings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited except when all the following condi­ tions are satisfied :
a) the tank has been washed after unloading with a volume of water of not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, and the resulting residues have been discharged to a reception facility until the tank is empty;
b) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of. ships which are not self- propelled ;
washings are approved by the Administration and . shall ensure that the concentration and rate of dis­
charge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the wake astern of the ship ,does not exceed i part per million;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, rtaking into account the location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not less than 25 metres.
3. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate­
gory C as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Paragraph B
of Uiis Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as
such or ballast watei, tank washings, or other residues Ballastwasser, Tankwaschwasser oder sonstigen Rück­ or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro­ ständen oder Gemischen, die solche Stoffe enthalten, ist hibited except when all the following conditions are
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are no', self- propelled;
approved by the Administration and shall er.sure that the concentration and rate of discharge of tine effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the
wake astern of the ship does not exceed 1 part per million ;
c) the maximum quantity of cargo discharged from each c) die Höchstmenge der aus jedem Tank und dem dazu­
tank and its associated piping system does Hot exceed the maximum quantity approved in accordance with the procedures referred to in Sub-Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph which shall in no case exceed the greater of 1 cubic metre or 1/3.000 of the tank capac­ ity in cubic metres ;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account tlife location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth
. of water of not less than 25 metres.
4. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate- gory D as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Paragraph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water , tank washings , or other residues or mixlurcs containing such substances shall be pro- hibitcd except when all the following conditions arc satisfied: *
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least
7 knots in the case?of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which arc not seif- propelled; • *
 h) such mixtures are of a concentration not greater than b) die Gemische habon eino Konzentra'ion von höch­ . one part of the substance in ten parts of water; and stens einem Teil des jeweiligen Stoffes auf zehn Teile
12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
5. Ventilation procedures approved by the Administra­ tion may be used to remove cargo residues from a tank. If subsequent washing of the tank is necessary, the discharge into the sea of the resulting tank washings shall be made in accordance with Sub-Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, or 4 of this Paragraph, whichever is applicable.
6. The discharge into the sea of substances which liuve not been categorized , provisionally assessed , or evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Para­ graph C of this Regulation, or of ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited.
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall not apply to:
the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances resulting from
. damage to a ship or its equipment:
(i) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted either with intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or . "
the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution incidents in order to minimize the damage from pollution. Any such dis­ charge shall be subject to the approval of any Con­ tracting Party in whose jurisdiction it is contemplated
. the discharge will occur.
F Measures of Control
1. The Contracting Parties shall appoint or authorize surveyors for the purpose of implementing this Para­ graph .
2. a) If a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pump­
ing or transfer operation carried out in connection with
that tank shall also be entered in the' Cargo Record
3. If the tank is to be washed :
a) the effluent from the tank washing operation shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility at least until the concentration of the substance in the
discharge, as indicated by analyses of samples of the effluent taken by the surveyor, has fallen to the residual concentration specified for that substance In Appendix III to t: .s Annqx. Whca the required re-
 sidual concentration has been achieved , remaining ' tank washings shall continue to be discharged to the reception facility until the tank is empty. Appropriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo
Record Book and certified by the surveyor; and
b) after diluting the residue then remaining in the tank with at least 5 per cent of the tank capacity of water, this mixture may be discharged into the sea in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Sub-Paragraphs 1 a), b), and c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. Ap­ propriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
4. Where the Government of the receiving Party is
satisfied that it is impracticable to measure the concen­
tration of the substance in the effluent without causing
graph 3 a) of this Paragraph provided that:
a) a precleaning procedure for that tank and thatsub- • stance is approved by the Administration and that Party is satisfied that such procedure will fulfil the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph D of this Regulation with respect to the attainment of the
b) a surveyor duly authorized by that Party shall certify in the Cargo Record Book that:
(i) the tank, its pump and piping system have been emptied, and that the quantity of cargo remaining in the tank is at or below the quantity on which the approved precleaning procedure referred to in Sub-Paragraph (ii) of this Sub-Paragraph has been based;
(ii) precleaning has been carried out in accordance with the precleaning procedure approved by the Administration for that tank and that substance; and
(iii) the tank washings resulting from such preclean-. ing have been discharged to a reception facility and the tank is empty;
c) the discharge into the sea of any remaining residues shall . be in accordance with the provisions of Sub- Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may-..be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall , with respect to a Category B substance , enstrce compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pumping or transfer operation carried out in connection with that tank shall also be entered in the Cargo Record Book ;
c) if the tank is to be washed, the effluent from the c) soll der Tank ausgewaschen werden, ko ist der beim
tank washing operation, which shall contain a volume of water not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility until the tank, its pump and piping system are empty. An appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
d) if the tank is to be farther cleaned and -emptied al sea, the Master shall:
 (i) ensure that the approved procedures referred to , in Sub-Paragraph 2 cl of Paragraph D of this Regu­ lation are complied with and "that the appropriate entries are made in the Cargo Record Book: and
ensure that any discharge into the sea is made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Para­ graph 2 of Paragraph D of this Regulation and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book ;
e) if after unloading a Category B substance, any res­ idues of tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the Baltic Sea Area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
6. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the
authorized or appointed surveyor as may be deemed
necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship
shall, with respect to a Category C substance,-ensure tän eine? Schiffes im Hinblick auf einen Stoff der compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
b) .if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
. (ii) the quantity of substance remaining in the tank shall not exceed the maximum quantity which may be discharged into the sea for that sub­ stance under Sub-Paragraph 3 c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. An appropriate efltry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; ;
(iii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea the approved procedures shall be complied with, and the necessary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An ap­ propriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(iv) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(v) any subsequent discharge into tlie sea of "such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 3 of Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
the tank- washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location and disposition of the tank washings;
d) if after unloading a Category C substance within the Baltic Sea Area, any residues or tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
7. The Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Cate­ gory D substance, ensure compliance with lhe following:
 a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
(ii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea, the neces­ sary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An appro­ priate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
(iii) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(iv) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 4 of "Para­ graph D of this Regulation ;
c) if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
–(i) the tank washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion- facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location
- and disposition of the tank washings.
Discharge irom a Slop Tank
8. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank,
including those from pump room bilges, which contain a
Category A or a Category B substance, shall be dis­
charged to a reception facility in accordance with the
provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 or 2 of Paragraph D of• oder 2 in eine Auffanganlage einzuleiten. Eine ent­ this Regulation, whichever is applicable. An appropriate
entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
9. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank, including those from pump room bilges, which contain a Category C substance in excess of the aggregate of the
maximum quantities specified in Sub-Paragraph 3c) of
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall be discharged to a
1. Every ship to which this Regulation applies shall be provided with a Cargo Record Book, whether as part of the ship 's official log book or otherwise , in the form specified in Appendix V to this Annex.
2 . The Cargo Regard Book shall be completed , on a tank-to-tank basis, whenever any of the following opera­ tions with respect to a noxious liquid substance takes place in the ship :
(ii ) unloading of cargo ;
(iii ) transfer of cargo ;
(iv) transfer of cargo, cargo residues or mixtures con­ taining cargo to a slop tank ;
(v ) cîeaning of cargo tanks ; (vi ) transfer from slop lanks ; (vu) ballastinn of cargo tanks;
(viii ) transfer of dirty ballast water ;
(ix) discharge into the sea in accordance with Para­
graph D of this Regulation.
 ■ 3. In the event of any discharge of the kind referred to in Annex VI of the present Convention and Para­ graph E of this Regulation of any noxious liquid sub­ stance or mixture containing such substance, whether intentional or accidental, an entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book stating the circumstances of,- and the reason for, the discharge,
4. When a surveyor appointed or outhorized' by a Contracting Party to supervise any operations under this Regulation has inspected a ship, then that surveyor shall make tin appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Each operation referred to in Sub-Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Paragraph shall be fully recorded without delay in the Cargo Record Book so that all the entries in the Book appropriate to that operation are completed. Each entry shall be signed by the officer or officers in charge of the operation concerned and , when the ship is manned , each page shall be signed by the Master of "the ship. The entries in the Cargo Record Book shallbe in an official language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly , and , except when the ship is engaged in domestic voyages , in English or French . The entries in an official national language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly shall prevail in case of a dispute or discrepancy,
6. The Cargo Record Book shall be kept in such a place as to be readily available for inspection and, except in the case of unmanned ships under tow, shall be kept on board the ship. It shall be retained for a period of two years after the last entry has been made.
7. The competent authority of a Contracting Party may
inspect the Cargo Record Book on board any ship to «kann das Ladungstagebuch an Bord jedes Schiffes, für
which this Regulation applies while the ship is in its port, and may make a copy of any entry in that Book and may require the Master of the ship to certify that the copy is a true copy of such entry. Any copy so made which has been certified by the Master of the ship as a true copy of an entry in the ship's Cargo Record Book shall be made admissible in any judicial proceedings as evidence of the facts stated in the entry. The inspection of a Cargo Record Book and the taking of a certified copy by the competent authority under this Paragraph shall be performed as expeditiously as possible without causing the ship to be unduly delayed. • •
1. The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure "the provision of reception facilities according to the needs of ships using their ports, terminals or repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area a^ follows:
a) cargo loading and unloading ports and terminals shall have facilities adequate for reception without undue delay to ships of such residues and mixtures con­ taining noxious liquid substances as would remain for disposal from ships carrying them as a conse­ quence of the application of this Regulation ; and
b) ohip repair ports undertaking repairs to chemical tan­ kers shall have facilities adequate for the reception of residues and mixtures containing noxious liquid substances.
2. Each Contracting Party shall determine the types of
facilities provided fcr the purpose of Sub-Paragraph 1
of this Paragraph at its cargo loading and unloading und Löschhäfen, ihren Umschlagplätzen und Schiffsrcpa-
poits, terminals and ship repair ports of the Baltic Sea" Aliîc'i .
Harmful substances in packaged forms
A. The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible apply suitable uniform rules for the carriage of harmful substances in packaged forms or in freight containers, portable tanks or road and rail tank wagons.
B. With respect to certain harmful substances, as may be designated by the Commission, the Master or owner of the ship or his representative shall notify the appro­ priate port authority of the intent to load or unload such substances at least 24 hours prior to such action.
C. A report of an incident involving harmful sub­ stances shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex VI of the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on discharge of sewage ships while operating in the Baltic Sea ;Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
1. 'New ship* means a ship:
a) for which the building contract is placed, or in the absence of a building contract, the keel of which is laid, or which is at a similar stage of construc­ tion, on or after the date of entry into force of the present Convention ; or
b) the delivery of which is three years or more after the date of entry into force of the present Conven­ tion.
2. 'Existing ship" means a ship which is not a new ship.
a) drainage and other wastes from any form of toilets, urinals , and WC scuppers ;
b) drainage from medical premises (dispensary, sick bay, etc.) via wash basins, wash tubs and scuppers located in such premises ; . .
c) drainage from spaces containing living animals; or
d) other waste waters when mixed with the drainages, defined above.
4. "Holding tank" means a tank used for the collection and storage of sewage.
1. The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to:
a) new ships certified to carry more than 100 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1977;
b) existing ships certified to carry more than 400 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1978; and
and (iii), from dates decided by the Contracting Par­ ties on recommendation by the Commission :
(i) ships of 200 tons gross tonnage and above;
 (ii) ships of less' lhan 200 tons gross tonnage which arc certified to carry more than 10 persons ;
(iii) ships which do not have a measured gross ton­ nage and arc certified to carry more than 40 per­ sons.
In the case of new such ships the date shall be not later than 1 January 1979. In the case of existing such ships the date shall be not later than ten ye<ys after the date decided for new ships.
2. A Contracting Party may, if it is satisfied that the application of the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of this Paragraph with respect to a certain ship would necessi­ tate constructional alterations which would be unreason­ able, exempt the ship from the application until a date not later than ten years after the date of entry into force of the present Convention.
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph D of this Regulation, the discharge of sewage into the sea is pro­ hibited, except when:
a) the ship is discharging comminuted and disinfected sewage using a system approved by the Administra­ tion at a distance of more , than 4 nautical miles from the nearest land, or sewage which is not comminuted or disinfected at a distance of more than 12 nautical
miles from the nearest land, provided that in any case the sewage that has been stored in holding tanks shall not be discharged instantaneously but at a moderate rate when the ship is en route and proceeding at not less than 4 knots; or
b) the ship has in operation a sewage treatment plant which has been approved by the Administration, and
(i) the test results of the plant are laid down in a document carried by the ship;
(ii) additionally, the effluent shall not produce visible floating solids in, nor cause discolouration of the surrounding water; or
c) the ship is situated in the waters under the jurisdic­ tion of a State and is discharging sewage in accords ance with such less stringent requirements as may be imposed by such State.
2. When the sewage is mixed with wastes of waste water having different discharge requirements, the.more stringent requirements shall apply.
Paragraph C of,this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the discharge of sewage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea,- or
ship or its equipment if all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the discharge.
1. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the
Provision of facilities at its ports and terminals of ttie
of the ships using them .
2. To enable pipes or reception facilities to be con­ nected with the ship's discharge pipeline, both lines shall be fitted with a standard discharge connection in accord­ ance with the following table :
Standard Dimensions of Flanges tor Discharge Connections
Slo.ts in flange
Flange thickness
Bolts and nuts : quantity and diameter
According to pipe outside diameter
equidisfantly placed on a bolt circle of the above
diameter, slotted to the flange periphery. The slot width to be 18 mm
4, each of 16 mm in diam­ eter and of suitable length
The flange is designed to accept pipes up to a maxi­ mum internal diameter of 100 mm and. shall be of steel
or other equivalent material having a flat face. This flange, together with a suitable gasket, shall be suitable for a service pressure of 6 kg/cm!.
For ships having a moulded depth of 5 metres and less, the inner diameter of the discharge connection may be 38 millimetres.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1*January 1976 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on the disposal of garbage from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
"Garbage" mean» .i" kinds of victual, domestic and operational waste excluding fresh fish and parts thereof, gencrated during the normal Operation of the ship and liable to be disposed of continuously or periodically ex- cept those substance.^which are defined or listed in other Rcgulations of this Annex.
 D Disposai ofGarbage
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs C and D of this Regulation:
a) disposal into the sea of the following is prohibited:
(i) all plastics, including but not limited to synthetic ropes, synthetic fishing nets and plastic garbage bags; and
(ii) all other garbage, including paper products, rags, glass, metal, bottles, crockery, dunnage, lining and packing materials ;
b) disposal into the sea of food wastes shall be made as far as practicable from land, but in any case not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
2. when the garbage is mixed with other discharges having different disposal or discharge requirements the more stringent requirements shall apply.
C Special Requirement's for Fixed and Floating Platforms r '
1. Subject to the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph, .the disposal of any materials regulated by this Regulation is prohibited from fixed or floating plat­ forms . engaged in the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral re­ sources, and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms.
2. The disposal into the sea of food wastes may be permitted when they have passed through a comminuter or grinder from such fixed or floating platforms' located more than 12 nautical miles from land and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms. Such comminuted or ground food wastes shall be capable of passing through a screen with openings no greater than 25 millimetres.
Paragraphs B and C of this Regulation shall not apply to :
a) the disposal of garbage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or '
b) the escape of garbage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment provided all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage, for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the escape; 6r •
c) the accidental loss of synthetic fishing nets or syn­ thetic material incidental to the repair of such nets, provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken to prevent such loss.
Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the pro­ vision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the Baltic Sea Area for the reception of garbage, without causing undue delay to ships, and according to the needs of the ships using them.
Aromatic Oil (excluding vegetable oil) Lubricating Oils and Blending
Appendix I List of Oils *)
•) The list of o-flt shall not necessarily be considered as comprehensive.
Guidelines for the Categorization of Noxious Liquid Substances
Substances which are bioaccumulaletl and liable to
which arc highly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 4, defined by a TLm less than 1 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are moderately toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 or more, but loss than 10 ppm) when particular weight is given to' additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics of llie substance .
Substances which are 'bioaccumulaled with a short
retention of the order of one week or less; or which are
liable to produce tainting of the -sea food ; or which are
moderately toxic to acquatic life (as expressed by a Haz­
ard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 ppm or more, but
less than 10 ppm); and additionally certain substances
which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by
a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of 10 ppm or more,
but less than 100 ppm) when particular weight is given
to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics of the substance.
Substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as
expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of sind (ausgedrückt durch Gefahrenstufe 2, bezeichnet 10 or more, but less than 100 ppm); and additionally cer­ durch eine TLm von 10 oder mehr, aber weniger als tain substances which are practically non-toxic to aquatic 100 ppm) sowie bestimmte Stoffe, die praktisch ungiftig life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a für Wasserpflanzen und -tiere sind (ausgedrückt durch TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than 1.000 ppm) when Gefahrenstufe 1, bezeichnet durch eine TLm von . 100 particular weight is given to additional factors in the oder mehr, aber weniger als 1 000 ppm), Venn zusätz­ hazard profile or to special characteristics of the sub­ lichen Faktoren im Gefahrenprofil oder besonderen stance.
Substances which are practically non-tpxic to aquatic
life, (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a
TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than - 1.000 ppm); or
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD); or highly hazardous to human health, with an LDJO of less than 5 mg/kg; or produce moderate reduction of amenities because of persistency, smell or poisonous or irritant characteristics, possibly interfering with use of beaches; or moderately hazardous to human health, with an LDJO of 5 mg/kg or more, but less than 50 mg/kg and produce slight reduc­ tion of amenities.
Other Liquid Substances (for the purposes of Paragraph C of Regulation 5)
Substances other than those categorized in Catce-­ gories A, B, C, and 0 above.
the Baltic Sea Area
Acetic anhydride
(branched chain) Allyl alcohol
Calcium hydroxide (solution) Camphor oil
List o! Noxious Liquid Substances carried in Bulk
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
- (ParagraphB of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
•) Asterisk indicates thai the substance has been provisionally Included In this list an*! that further data are necessary in order to complete the evaluation of us enviioamcntal hazards, particularly in lelation to living resources.
i .n m ■IV Within
I II III IV Within
Ihe Baltic Sea Area
Caustic potash (Potassium hydroxide)
para-Cymene (Isopropyltoluene) *) Decahydronaphthalene
Dimethylethanolamine (2-Dimethylaminoethanol) *)
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
*) Asterisk indicates thai the substance has been provisionally included In this list and that further data are necessary in ord*r to complete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in relation to Ifving resources.
Ethylene chlorohydrin (2-Chloro-ethanol)
Heptanoic acid *) Hexamethylenediamine *)
Hydrofluoric acid (40 °/o aqueous) Hydrogen peroxide (greater than 60 °/o) Isobutyl acrylate
Isopropylamine : Isopropyl cyclohexane Isoprene
Methyl acrylate Methylamyl alcohol Methylene chloride 2-Methyl-5-Ethylpyridine *) Methyl methacrylate 2-Methypentene •)
Pollution Category for oper- ■
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (I) of
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally Included in this list and that further data are necessary to order to complete
the evaluation of its environmental hazards* uailiculaily in relation lo living resourws. 36
I II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Pentachloroethane
Phthalic Anhydride (molten) beta-Propiolactone *) Propionaldehyde
Propionic anhydride n-Propyl acetate *) n-Propyl alcohol n-Propylamine Pyridine
the Baltic Sea Area
Monoisopropylamine Morpholine *) Naphthalene (molten) Naphthenic acids *) Nitric acid (90 0/a) 2-Nitropropane ortho-Nitrotoluene Nonyl alcohol•) Nonylphcnol n-Octanol
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
•) Asterisk indicates that (ho substance has been provisionally Included in this list and that further data am necessary In order to coinp.cte the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly In rclatfon to living resources.
I II III IV Within
1 II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Vinylidene chloride *) Xylenes (mixed isomers)
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
•) Asterisk indicate# that the substance has been provisionally Included in this list and that further data are necessary ih order to complete the evaluation ol its environmental hazards, particularly in relation to living resources.
D 1005 B iso-Amvlacetat 1104 C n-Amylacetat 1104 C ! D
n-Butylacctat sec-Butylacetat n-Butylacrylat
Diäthylentriamin *) Diäthylenglycol-monoäthyläther Diathylketon (3-Pentanon) Diisobutylen •)
Diisopropylâther *)
Dimethylamin (40°/# wasserhaltig) Dimethylâthanolamin (2-Dimethylaminoâthanol) *) Dimethylformamid
Athylendichlorid Äthylenglycol-monoäthyläther (Methylkolloidlôsung) ' 2-Athylhexylacrylat *)
Isonhoron Isopropylamin Isopropylcyclohexan
Monoâthanolamin D
Monomethylathanolamin
1710 B Triathanolamin D
(Trikresylphosphat) Terpentin (Holz) Vinylacetat Vinylidenchlorid *) Xylole (Isomerengemisdi)
Decyl octyl alcohol Dibutyl ether Diethanolamine Diethylene glycol Dipentene
Heptene (mixed isomers)
List of olher Liquid Substances
carried in Bulk
Cargo Record Books for Ships carrying Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk
Name of ship .-.
Cargo carrying capacity of each tank in cubic metres
Voyage from
a) ' Loading of cargo
1. Date and place of loading .
2. Name and category of cargo(es) loaded
3. Identity of tank(s) loaded
b) Transfer of cargo
4. Date of transfer
5. Identity of tank(s) (i) From (ii To
7. If not, quantity remaining
c) Unloading of cargo
8. Date and place of unloading 9. Identity of tank(s) unloaded
11. If not, quantity remaining in tank(s)
12. Is (are) tank(s) to be cleaned? 13. Amount transferred to slop tank 14. Identity of slop tank -
d) Ballasting of cargo tanks
• 15. Identity of tank(s) ballasted
16. Date and position of ship a't start of ballasting
e) Cleaning of cargo tanks Category A substances
17. Identity of tank(s) cleaned
18. Date and location of cleaning
19. Method(s) of cleaning
20. Location of reception facility used
21. Concentration of effluent when discharge to recep­ tion facility stopped
22. Quantity remaining in tank
23. Procedure and amount of water introduced into tank in final cleaning
24. Location, date of discharge into the sea
25. Procedure and^equipment used in discharge into the sea
Signature of Master 46
 Category B, C, and D substances
26. Washing procedure used
27. Quantity of water used
28. Dale, location of discharge into the sea
29. Procedure and equipment used in disdiarge into the sea
f) Transfer of dirty ballast water
30. Idcntity of tank(s)
31. Date and position of ship at start of disdiarge into the sea
34. Quantity discharged into the sea
32. Date and position into the sea
of . ship
35. Quantity of polluted water transferred to slop tank(s) (identify slop'tanks(s))
36. Date and port of disdiarge'to reception facilities (if Applicable)
g) Transfer from slop tank/disposal of residue
37. Identity of slop tank(s) 37. 38. Quantity disposed from each tank 38. 39. Method of disposal of Tesidue: 39.
(b) Mixed with cargo ,
(c) Transferred to another (other) tank(s) (identify ,
(d) Other method
40. Date and port of disposal of residue
h) Accidental or other exceptional disdiarge
41 . Date and time of occurrence
42. Place or position of ship at time of occurrence
43. Approximate quantity, name and category of substance
44. Circumstanccs of discharge or escape and general remarks.
Signature of Master
 a) issue special permits provided for in Regulation 1 of this Annex; .
b) keep records of the nature and quantities of matter permitted to be dumped and the location, time and method of dumping;
c) collect available information concerning the nature and quantities of matter that has been dumped in the Baltic Sea Area recently and up to the coming into force of the present Convention, provided that the
■ dumped matter in question could be liable to cont­ aminate water or organisms jn the Baltic: Sea Area, to be caught by fishing equipment, or otherwise to give rise to harm , and the location , time and method of such dumping. .
2. The appropriate national authority shall issue special permits in accordance with Regulation 1 of this Annex in respect of matter intended for dumping in the Baltic Sea Area:' *
a) loaded in its territory ;
Exceptions from the General Prohibition of Dumping of Waste and other Matter in the Baltic Sea Area
In accordance with Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the present Convention the prohibition of dumping shall not apply to the disposal at sea of dredged spoils provided that:
1. they do not contain significant quantities and concen­ trations of substances to be defined by the Commis­ sion and listed in Annexes I and II of the present Con­ vention; and
2. the dumping is carried out under a prior special permit given by the appropriate national authority, eUher
a) within the area of the territorial sea of the Con­ tracting Partyj or
b) outside the area of the territorial sea, whenever necessary, after prior consultations in the Com­ mission.
When issuing such permits the Contracting Party shall comply with the provisions in Regulation 3 of this Annex.
1. The appropriate national authority referred to in
tory or flying its flag, when the leading occurs in the territory of a State not Party to the present Conven­ tion.
3. When issuing permits under Sub-Paragraph 1 a)
with Regulation 3 of this Annex, together with such additional criteria, measures and requirements as they may consider relevant.
4. Each Contracting Party shall Teport to the Commis­ sion , and where appropriate to other Contracting Parties , the information specified in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regu­ lation 2 of this Annex. The procedure to be followed and
' the nature of such reports shall be determined by the richte werden von der Kommission bestimmt. Commission.
When issuing special permits according to Regulation 1 of this Annex the appropriate national au'horily shall take into account:
1. Quantity of dredged spoils to be dumped.
2. The content of the matter referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention.
3. Location (e.g. co-ordinates of the dumping area, depth and distance from coast) and its relation to areas of special interest (e.g. amenity areas, spawning, nursery and fishing areas, etc.).
4. Water characteristics, if dumping is carried out out­ side the territorial sea, consisting of:
a) hydrographic properties (e. g. temperature, salinity, density, profile);
b) chemical properties (e. g. pH, dissolved oxygen, nutrients); .
c) biological properties (e. g. primary production and benthic animals).
The data should include sufficient information on the annual mean levels and the seasonal variation of the properties mentioned in this Paragraph.
Article 9 of the present Convention shall include the müssen folgende Angaben enthalten: following information:
material, and counter measures taken :
a) location (e. g. co-ordinates of the accidental dump­ ing site, depth and distance from'the coast); *.
b) method of deposit ;
. c) quantity and composition of dumped matter as well as its physical (o. g. solubility and density), chemi­ cal and biochemical ' e. g. oxygen demand, nutrients), and biological properties, (e. g. presence
of viruses, bacteria, yeasts, parasites);
toxicity ;
content of the substances referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention ;
dispersal characteristics (e. g. effects of currents and wind, and horizontal transport and vertical mixing);
water characteristics (e. g. temperature, pH, redox conditions, salinity and stratification);
bottom characteristics (e. g. topogtaphy, geological characteristics and redox conditions);
counter measures taken and follow-up operations carried out or planned.
2. General considerations and conditions :
a) possible effects on amenities (e.g. floating or stranded material, turbidity, objectionable odour, discolouration and foaming); ' .
 b) possible effect on marine life, fish and shellfish culture, fish slocks and fisheries, seaweed harvest­ ing and cultures; and
c) possible effects on other uses of the sea (e.g. impairment of water quality for industrial use, underwater corrosion of structures , interference with ship operations from floating materials, inter­ ference with fishing or navigation and protection of areas of special importance for scientific or conservation purposes)%.
For the purposes of this Annex :
operating in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag of any Slate, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the .coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances , means any ' release howsoever caused from a ship and in­ cludes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pump­
ing, emitting or emptying. Discharge " does not include :
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated offshore processing of sea-bed mineral resources ,- or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
The Contracting Parlies undertake to maintain ability to combat spillages of oil and other harmful substances on the sea. This ability shall include adequate equip­ ment, ships and manpower prepared for operations in coastal waters as well as on the high sea.
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, devel­ op and apply, individually or in co-operation, surveillance activities covering the Baltic Sea Area, in order to spot and monitor oil and other harmful substances released into the sea.
In the case of loss overboard of harmful substances in packages, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons, tRe Contracting Parties shall co-operate in the salvage and recovery of such packages, containers
or tanks so as to minimize the danger to the environ­ ment.
1. The Contracting Parties shall develop and apply a system for receiving, channeling and dispatching reports on significant spillages of oil 01 other harmful substances observed at sea, as well as any incident causing or likely to cause any kind of significant pollution.
2. The Contracting Parties shall request masters of ships and pilots of aircraft to report without delay in accordance with this system on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea. Such reports should as far as possible contain the following data: time, position, wind and sea conditions, and kind, extent and probable source of the spill observed.
3. The master of a ship involved in an incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation, or other person having charge of the ship, shall without delay &nd to the fullest extent possible report in accordance with this system and with the provisions of the Appfendix to the present Annex.
4. Each- Contracting Party undertakes to issue instruc­ tions to its maritime inspection vessels and aircraft and to other appropriate services, to report to its authorities any observation or incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation. Such reports shall as far as possible contain the data referred to in Paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Regulation respectively, as well as possible indications on the spreading or drifting tendencies of the spill in question .
5. Whenever a Contracting Party is aware of a casualty or the presence of spillages of oil or other harmful substances in the Baltic Sea Area likely to constitute a serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area or the coast or related interests of any other Contracting Party, it shall without delay transmit all relevant information thereon to the Contracting Party which may be affected by the pollutant and, as regards ship casualty incidents, to the Administration of the ship involved.
- Each Contracting Party shall request masters of ships flying its flag to provide, in case of an incident, on re­ quest by the proper authorities, such detailed informa­ tion about the ship and its cargo which ;is relevant to actions for preventing or combatting pollution of the sea, and to co-operate with these authorities.
1. a) The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible
agree bilaterally or multilaterally on those regions of the
Baltic Sea Area in which they will take action for
combatting or salvage activities whenever a significant
spillage of oil or other harmful substances or any in­
cidents causing or likely to cause pollution within the
Baltic Sea Area have occurred or are likely to occur.
Such agreements shall not prejudice any other agree­
ments concluded between Contracting Parties concerning
the same subject. The neighbouring States shall ensure
The Contracting Parties may ask the Commission for assistance to reach agreement, if needed. *
 b) The Contracting Party within whose region a situation as described in Regulation 1 of this Annex occurs shall make the necessary assessments of the situation and take adequate action in order to avoid or minimize subsequent pollution effects and shall keep drifting parts of the spillage under observation until no further action is called for.
2. In the case that such a spillage is drifting or is
likely to drift into a region, where another Contracting
Party should take action for purposes as defined in
Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of this Regulation, that Party shall
without delay be informed of the situation and the Lage und die bereits getroffenen Maßnahmen unterrich­ actions that have been taken.
A Contracting Party requiring assistance for combatting
entitled to call for assistance by other Contracting
Parties, starting with those who seem likely also to be
affected by the spillage. Contracting Parties called upon
for assistance in accordance with this Regulation shall den Feld betroffen werden. Die nach dieseT Regel um use their best endeavours to bring such assistance. .
1. The Contracting Parties shall provide information to the other Contracting Parties and the Commission about
a) their national organization for dealing with spillages at sea of oil and other harmful substances;
. b) national regulations and other matters which have a direct bearing on combatting pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances ; *
c) the competent authority responsible for receiving and dispatching reports of pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances;
d) the competent authorities for dealing with questions concerning measures of mutual assistance , informa­ tion and co-operation between the Contracting Parties according to this Annex;
e). actions taken in accordance with Regulation 8 of this . e) die nach Regel 8 getroffenen Maßnahmen. Annex. _ ...
2. The Contracting Parties shall exchange information of research and development programs and" results' con­ cerning ways in which pollution by oil and other harmful substances at sea may be dealt with and experiences in combatting such pollution.
The authorities referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Regulation 9 of this Annex shall establish direct contact and co-operate in operational matters.
on Incidents Involving Harmful Substances
Duty to Report
1. The Master of a ship involved in an incident re­ ferred to in Regulation 3 of this Appendix, or other per­ son having charge of the ship, shall report the particulars of such incident without delay and to the fullest extent possible in accordance with the provisions of this Appendix .
2. In the event of the ship referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation being abandoned, or in the event of a report from such ship being incomplete or unobtainable, the owner, charterer, manager or operator of the ship, or their agents shall, to the fullest extent possible assume the obligations placed upon the Master under the provi­ sions of this Appendix.
Methods of Reporting
1. Each report shall be made by radio whenever possible, but in any case by the fastest channels avail­ able at the time the report is made. Reports made by radio shall be given the highest possible priority.
2. Reports shall be directed to the appropriate officer or agency referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regula­ tion 9 of Annex VI of the present Convention.
When to Make Reports
The report shall be made whenever an incident in­ volves :
a) a discharge other than as permitted under the present Convention! or
b) a discharge permitted under, the present Convention by virtue of the fact that:
(i) it is for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea ; or
(ii) it results from damage to the ship or its equip­ ment; or
c) a discharge of a harmful substance for the purpose of combatting s specific pollution incident or for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abate­ ment or control ; 'or
d) the probability of a discharge referred to in Sub- Paragraph a), b), or c) of this Regulation...
Contents of Report .
a) the identity of ship;
b) the time and date of the occurrence of the incident;
c) the geographic position of the ship when the inciderft occurred ;
 d) the wind end sea conditions prevailing at the time of • the incident ; and
-c) relevant details respecting the condition of the ship. 2. Each report shall contain, in particular:
a clear indication or description of the harmful substances involved, including, if possible, the correct technical names of such substances (trade names should not be used in place of the correct technical names) ;
a statement or estimate of the quantities, concentra­ tions and likely conditions of harmful substances discharged or likely to be discharged into the sea;
where relevant, a description of the packaging and identifying marks ; and
if possible the name of the consignor, consignee or manufacturer.
3. Each report shall clearly indicate whether the harm­ ful substance discharged, or likely to be discharged is oil, a noxious liquid substance, a noxious solid substance, or_a noxious gaseous substance and whether such substance was or is carried in bulk or contained in packaged form, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons.
4. Each report shall be supplemented as necessary by any other relevant information requested by a recipient of the Teport or which the person sending the report deems appropriate.
Supplementary Report
Any person who is obliged under the provisions of this Appendix to send a report shall, when possible:
a) supplement the initial report, as necessary, with in­ formation concerning further developments; and
b) comply as fully as possible with requests from affect­
ed States for additional information concerning the incident.
"Article 6 - Principles and obligations concerning land-based pollution.
The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ-' ment of the Baltic Sea Area .
In particular, the Contracting Parties shalL take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollution by noxious sub­ stances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention . To this end they shall , inter alia , as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines, standards or regulations concerning discharges, en­ vironmental quality and products containing such substances and materials and their use .
The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present ,
Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment
.. of the Baltic Sea Area io significant quantities without a prior
special permit, which may be periodically reviewed by the appro­ priate national authority".
on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area
CONSCIOUS of the indispensable economic, social and cultural values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area and its living resources for the peoples of the Contracting Parties;
BEARING in mind the exceptional hydrographlc and ecological characteristics of the Baltic Sea. Area and the sensitivity of its living resources to changes in the environment;
NOTING the rapid development of human activities at the Baltic Sea Area, the considerable population living within its catchment area and the highly urbanized and industrialized state of the Contracting Parties as well as° their intensive agriculture and forestry;
NOTING with deep concern the increasing pollution
of the Baltic Sea Area, originating from majvy sources
pipelines, dumping and normal operations of vessels as well as through airborne pollutants;
CONSCIOUS,of the responsibility of the Contracting Parties to protect and enhance the values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area for the benefit of
their peoples;
RECOGNIZING that the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of "the Baltic Sea Area are
tasks that cannot effectively be accomplished by national efforts only but that also close regional co-operation and other appropriate international measures aiming at fulfil­ ling these tasks are urgently needed ;
NOTING that' the relevant recent international con­ ventions even after having entered into force for the respective Contracting Parties do not cover all special requirements to protect and enhance the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area ;
NOTING the importance of scientific and technologi­ cal co-operation in the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, particu­ larly between the Contracting Parties;
DESIRING to develop further regional co-operation in
of which were confirmed by the signing of the Conven­ tion on Fishing and Conservation ol the Living Resources in the Baltic Sea and the Belts, Gdansk 1973;
 CONSCIOUS of the importance of regional intergov­ EINGEDENK der Bedeutung regionaler 'zwischenstaat­ ernmental co-operalion in the protection of the marine licher Zusamincnaibeil beim Schutz der Moercsumwelt environment of the Baltic Sea Area as an integral part of des Ostseegebiets als Teil der friedlichen Zusammenar­ the peaceful co-operalion and mutual understanding be­ beit und des gegenseitigen Verständnisses zwischen tween all European States;
For the purposes of the present Convention "the Baltic Sea Area" shall be the Baltic Sea proper with the Gulf of Bothnia, the Gulf of Finland and the entrance to the Baltic Sea bounded by the parallel of the Skaw in the Skagerrak at 57 ° 44' 8" N. It does not include internal waters of the Contracting Parties.
For the purposes of the present Convention:
1. "Pollution" means introduction by man, directly or ■ indirectly, of . substances or energy into the marine environment, including estuaries, resulting in such deleterious effects as hazard to human health, harm to living resources and marine life, hindrance to legiti- ■ mate uses of the sea including fishing, impairment of the quality for use of sea water, and reduction of
2. "Land-based pollution" means pollution of the sea 2. Der Ausdruck .Verschmutzung" vom Land aus" be­
caused by discharges from land reaching the -sea waterborne, airborne or directly from the cciast, in­ cluding outfalls from pipelines;
(i) any deliberate disposal at sea of wastes or other matter from vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;
(ii) any deliberate disposal at sea of vessels, air­ craft, platforms or other man-jnade structures at sea;
"Dumping" does not include:
(i) the disposal at sea of wastes or other matter incidental to, or derived from the normal opera­ tions of vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea and their equip­ ment, other than wastes or other matter trans­ ported by or to vessels, aircraft, platforms or
■ other man-made structures at sea, operating for the purpose of disposal of such matter or de­ rived from the treatment of such wastes or
other matter on such vessels, aircraft, platforms or structures:
(ii) placement of matter for a purpose, other than the mere disposal - thereof, provided that such
placement is not contrary to the aims of the present Convention;
4. 'Vessels and aircraft* ineans waterborne or airborne craft of any type whatsoever. This expression includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft whether self-propelled or not, and fixed or floating platforms; '
5. "Oil" means petroleum in any form including crude oil, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products;
6. "Harmful substance* means any hazardous, noxious, or other substance, which, if introduced into the sea, is liable to cause pollution; '
7. 'Incident*, means an event involving the actual or probable discharge into the sea of harmful substance, or effluents containing such a substance.
Article 3 ' Fundamental principles and obligations , •
1. The Contracting Parties shall individually or jointly take all appropriate legislative, administrative or other relevant measures in order to prevent and abate pollu­ tion and to protect and enhance the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. The Contracting Parties shall use their best endeav­ ours to ensure that the implementation of the present Convention shall not cause an increase in the pollution of sea areas outside the Baltic Sea Area.
1. The present Convention shall apply to the protec­ tion of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area .
ing their living resources and other forms of marine life.
2. Without prejudice to the sovereign rights in regard to their territorial sea, each Contracting Party shall im­ plement the provisions of the present Convention within its territorial sea through its national authorities.
3; While the provisions of the present Convention do
not apply to internal waters, which are under the sover­
to ensure that the purposes of the present Convention will be obtained in these waters.
4. The present Convention shall not apply to any
However, each Contracting Party shall ensure, by the Jedoch stellt jede Vertragspartei durch geeignete, den
adoption of appropriate measures not impairing the oper­ ations or operational capabilities of such ships and air­ craft owned or operated by it, that such ships and air­ craft act in a manner consistent, so far as is reasonable and practicable, with the present Convention.
speeified in Annex 1 of the present Convention.
Principles and obligations concerning . land-based pollution
1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollu­ tion by noxious substances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention. To this end they shall , inter alia , as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines, standards or regulations concerning dis­ charges, environmental quality, and products containing such substances and materials and their use.
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be. introduced Into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit, which may be periodically reviewed, by the appropriate national au­ thority.
4. The appropriate national authority will inform the Commission referred to in Article 12 of the present Con­ vention of the quantity, quality and way of discharge if it considers that significant quantities of substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention were discharged.
5. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to establish and adopt common criteria for issuing permits for dis­ charges. „
6. To control and minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea" Area by harmful substances the Contracting Parties shall, in addition to the provisions of Article 5 of the present Convention, aim at attaining the goals and applying the criteria enumerated in Annex III of the present Conven­ tion.
7. 11 the discharge from a watercourse, flowing through the territories of two or more Contracting Parties or forming a boundary between them, is liable to cause pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, the Contracting Parties concerned shall in com­ mon take appropriate measures in order to prevent and abate such pollution.
3. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to use best practicable means in order to minimize the airborne pol­ lution of the Baltic Sea Area by noxious substances.
Prevention of pollution from ships
1. In order to protect the Baltic Sea Area from pollu­ tion by deliberate, negligent or accidental release of oil, harmful substances other than oil, and by the discharge of sewage and garbage from ships, the Contracting Par­ ties shall take measures as set out in Annex IV of the present Convention.
2. The Contracting Parties shall develop and apply
uniform requirements for the capacity and location of
facilities for the reception of residues of oil, harmful-
substances other thsjn oil, including sewage and garbage,
taking into account inter alia the special needs of pas­ und wenden diese an, wobei sie unter anderem die
senger ships and combination carriers. •
 Article 8 Pleasure craft
The Contracting Parties shall, in addition to imple­
the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area of ple­ . liehen Auswirkungen des Betriebs von Vergnügungs-
asure craft activities. The measures shall inter alia deal
with adequate reception facilities for wastes from ple­ asure craft.
Article 9 Prévention of dumping
1. The Contracting Parties shall, subject to Paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article, prohibit dumping in the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Dumping of dredged spoils shall be subject to a prior special permit by the appropriate national authority in accordance with the provisions of Annex V- of the pres­ ent Convention.
3. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure com­ pliance with the provisions of this Article by vessels and aircraft:
a) registered in its territory or flying its flag;
b) loading, within its territory or territorial sea, matter which is to be dumped; or
c) believed to be engaged in dumping within its ter­ ritorial sea.
4. The provisions of this Article shall not apply when the safety of human life or of a vessel or aircraft at sea is threatened by the complete destruction or total loss of the vessel or aircraft, or . in any case which constitutes a danger to human life, if dumping appears to be the only way of averting the threat and if there is every probabil­ ity that the damage consequent upon such dumping will be less than would otherwise occur. Such dumping shall be so conducted as to minimize the likelihood o. damage to human or marine life.
5. Dumping made under the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Article shall be reported and dealt with in ac­ cordance with Annex VI of the present Convention and shall also be reported forthwith to the Commission refer­ red to in Article 12 of the present Convention in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Regulation 4 of Annex V of the present Convention.
6. In case of dumping suspected to be in contravention of the provisions ol this Article the Contracting Parties shall co-operate in investigating the matter in accordance with Regulation 2 of Annex IV of the present Conven­ tion.
Exploration and exploitation . of the sea-bed and its subsoil
Eadi Contracting Party shall take all appropriate meas­ ures in order to. prevent pollution of the marine en­ vironment of the Baltic Sea Area resulting from explora­ tion or exploitation of its part of the sea-bed and its subsoil or from any associated activities thereon. It shall also ensure thatAdequate equipment is at hand to start an immediate abatement of pollution in that area.
The Contracting Parties shall take measures and co­
tion in order to eliminate or minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea Area by oil or other harmful substances.
Institutional and organizational framework
1. The Baltic Marine Environment Protection Com­
mission , hereinafter referred to as " the Commission ", is
hereby established for the purposes of the present Con­ vention .
2. The chairmanship of the Commission shall be given tor ench Contracting Party in turn in alphabetical orrler of the names of the States in the English language.
The Chairman shall serve for a period of two years, and cannot during the period of his chairmanship serve as representative of his country.
Should the chairmanship fall vacant, the Contracting Party chairing the Commission shall nominate a suc­ cessor to remain in office until the term of chairmanship of that Contracting Party expires.
3. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at least once a year upon convocation by the Chairman. Upon
dorsed by another Contracting Party, the Chafhnan shall, as soon as possible, summon an extraordinary meeting at such time and place as the Chairman determines, how­ ever, not later than ninety days from the date of the sub­ mission of the request.
4. The first meeting of the Commission shall be called by the Depositary Government and shall take place within a period of ninety days from the date fol­ lowing the entry into force of the present Convention.
5. Each Contracting Party shall have one vote in the Commission. Unless otherwise provided under the pres­ ent Convention, the Commission shall take its decisions unanimously.
The duties of the Commission
The duties of the Commission shall be:
To keep the implementation of the present Conven­ tion under continuous observation ;
To make 'recommendations on measures relating to the purposes of the present Convention ;
To keep under review the contents of the present Convention including its Annexes and to recommend to the Contracting Parties such amendments to the present Convention including its Annexes as may be required including changes in the lists of substances and materials as well as the adoption of new An­ nexes ;
To define pollution control criteria, objectives for the reduction of pollution, and objectives concerning meas­ ures, particularly according to Annex III of the pres­ ent Convention ;
governmental bodies, taking into consideration Sub- Paragraph f) of this Article, additional measures to protect the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area and for this purpose:
 (i) to receive, process, summarize and disseminate from available sources relevant scientific, tech­
nological and statistic*! information; and
(ii) to promote scientific and technological research;
regional and other international organizations to col­ laborate in scientific and technological research as well as other relevant activities pertinent to the ob­ jectives of the present Convention;
g) To assume such other functions as may be appro­ priate under the terms of the present Convention.
Administrative provisions for the Commission
1 . The working language of the Commission . shall English.
2. The Commission shall adopt its Rules of Procedure.
3. The office of the Commission, hereafter referred to as the "Secretariat", shall be in Helsinki.
4..The Commission shall appoint an Executive Secre­ tary and make provisions for the appointment of such other personnel as may be necessary, and determine the duties, terms and conditions of the Executive Secretary.
5. The Executive Secretary shall be the chief adminis­ trative official of the Commission and shall perform the functions that are necessary for the administration of the present Convention, the work of the Commission and other tasks entrusted to the Executive Secretary by the Commission and its Rules of Procedure.
Financial provisions for the Commission
1. The Commission shall adopt its Financial Rul'is.
2. The Commission shall adopt an annual or biennial budget of proposed expenditures and budget estimates for the fiscal period following thereafter.
3. The total amount of the budget, including any sup­ plementary budget adopted by the Commission, shall be contributed by the Contracting Parties in equal parts, unless the Commission unanimously decides otherwise .
4. Each Contracting Party shall pay the expenses related to the participation in the Commission of its rep­ resentatives, experts and advisers.
SclciitiUc and techuological co-operation
1. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other interna­ tional organizations , to co-operate in the fields of science , technology and other research, and to exchange data as well as other scientific information for the purposes of the present Convention.
2. Without prejudice to Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Ar­ ticle 4 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties undertake directly, "or when appropiiate through com­ petent regional or other international organizations, to promote studies, unterlake, support or contribute to prog­ rammes aimed at developing -ways and means for the
 • assessment of tho nature and extent of pollution, path­ ways , exposures , risks and remedies in the Bailie Sea Area, and particularly to develop alternative methods of treatment, disposal and elimination of such matter and substances that are likely to cause pollution of flic ma­ rine environment of the Baltic Soa Area.
3. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other inter­ national organizations , and , on the basis of the informa­ tion and data acquired pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, to co-operate in developing inter-com- parable observation methods , in performing baseline studios and in establishing complementary or joint prog­ rammes for monitoring.
4. The organization and scope of work connected with the implementation of tasks referred to in the preceding Paragraphs should primarily be outlined by.the Com­ mission.
Article. 17 Responsibility for damage
The Contracting Parties undertake, as soon as pos­ sible, jointly to develop and accept rules concerning responsibility for damage resulting from acts or omis­ sions in contravention of the present Convention, includ­ ing , inter alia , limits of responsibility , criteria and proce­ dures for the determination of liability and available remedies.
1. In case of a dispute between Contracting Parties
as to the interpretation or application of the present Con­
vention , they should seek a solution by negotiation . If the
unable to agree on measures as described above, such tion tribunal, or to the International Court of Justice.
Article 19 Safeguard of certain freedoms
Nothing in Lhe present Convention shall be construed as infringing upon the freedom of navigation, fishing, marine scientific research and other legitimate uses of the high seas, as well as upon the right of innocent pas­ sage through the territorial sea . .
Article 20 Status of Annexes
The Annexes attached to the present Convention form an integral part of the Convention.
Relation to other Conventions
The provisions of the -present Convention shall be wi'hont prejudice to '.he rights ar.d obligations of the
 Contracting Parties under treaties concluded previously well as under treaties which may be concluded in the *utiTre, furthering and developing the general principles ' (he' Lawr of the Sea that the present Convention is based upon and in particular provisions concerning the
prevention of pollution of the marine environment.
« Revision of the Convention
A conference for the purpose of a general revision of the present Convention may be convened with the con­ sent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission .
Amendments to the Articles of the Convention
to the Articles of the present Convention. Any such pro­
posed amendment shall be submitted to the Depositary
Government and communicated by it to all Contracting
of either their acceptance or rejection of the amendment as soon as possible after the receipt of the communica­ tion .
The amendment shall enter into force ninety days after the Depositary Government has received notifications of acceptance of that amendment from all Contracting Par­ ties.
2. With the consent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission a conference may be con­ vened for the purpose of amending the present Conven­ tion .
Amendments to the Annexes and the adoption of Annexes
1. Any amendment to the Annexes proposed by a Con­ tracting Party shall be communicated to the other Con­ tracting Parties by the Depositary Government and con­ sidered in the Commission. If adopted by the Commis­ sion, the amendment shall be communicated to the Con­ tracting Parties and recommended for acceptance.
2. Such amendment shall be deemed to have been ac­ cepted at the end of a period determined by the Com­ mission unless within that period anyone of the Con­ tracting Parties has objected to the amendment. The ac­ cepted amendment shall enter into force on a date deter­ mined by the Commission.
The period determined by the Commission shall be pro­ longed for an additional period of six months and the date of entry into force of the amendment postponed accordingly, if, i'n exceptional cases, any Contracting Party before the expiring of the period determined by the Commission informs the Depositary Government, that, although it intends to accept the proposal, the con­ stitutional requirements for such an acceptance are not yet fulfilled in its State.
3. An Annex to the present Convention may be
adopted in accordance with the provisions of this Ar­ ticle .
4. The Depositary Government shall inform all Con­ tracting Parties of any amendments or the adoption of a new Annex which enter into force under this Article and of the dale on which such amendment or new An­ nex enters into forcC.
5. Any objection under this Article shall be made by notification in writing to the Depositary Government
 which shall notify all Contracting Parties and the Ex­ ecutive Sccielary of any such notification and the data of its receipt.
1. The provisions of the present Convention shall not be subject to reservations.
2. The provision of ParayrapH 1 of this Article does not prevent a Contracting Party from suspending for a period not exceeding one year the application of an Annex of the present Convention or part thereof or an amendment thereto after the Annex in question or the amendment thereto has entered into force.
3. If after the entry into force of the present Conven­ tion a Contracting Parly invokes the provisions of Para­ graph 2 of this Article it shall inform the other Contract­ ing Parties, at the time of the adoption by the Commis­ sion of an amendment to an Annex-or a new Ahnex, of those provisions which will be suspended in accordance with Paragraph 2 of this Article. ;
Signature, ratification, approvai, and accession
1. The present Convention shall be open for signature in Helsinki on 22 March 1974 by the Baltic Sea States participating in the Diplomatic Conference on the Protec­ tion of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, held in Helsinki from 18 to 22 March 1974. The present Convention shall be open for accession to any other State interested in fulfilling the aims and purposes of the present Convention, provided that this Staje is invited by all the Contracting Parties.
2. The present Convention shall be subject to ratifica­ tion or approval by the States which have signed it.
3. The instruments of ratification, approval, or acces­
sion shall be deposited with the Government of Finland,
which will perform the duties of the Depositary Govern­
Article 27 Entry into force
The present Convention shall enter into force two months aftef the deposit of the seventh instrument of ratification or approval.
Article 28 Withdrawal
1. At any time, after the expiry of five years from the date of entry into force of the present Convention any Contracting Party may, by giving written notification to the Depositary Government, withdraw from the present Convention. The withdrawal shall take effect for such Contracting Party on the thirty-first day of December of the year which follows the year in which the Depositary Government was notified of the withdrawal.
2. In case of notification of withdrawal by a Contract­ ing Party the Depositary Government shall convene a meeting of the Contracting Parties for the purpose of considering the effect of the withdrawal.
The present Convention has been drawn up in a single copy in the English language. Official translations into
ish languages shall be prepared and deposited with the signed original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipoten­
DONE AT HELSINKI, this twenty-second day of March' . GESCHEHEN ZU HELSINKI am 22. März 1974 one thousand nine hundred and seventy-four.
 its derivatives DDE and DDD.
2. PCB's (polychlorinated biphenyls).
The protection of Die Baltic Sea Area from pollution
by the substances listed below can involve the use of
appropriate technical means, prohibitions and regulations geeignete technische Maßnahmen, durch Verbote und of the transport, trade, handling, application, and final Vorschriften über Beförderung, Handel, Handhabung, An­
 Noxious Substances and Materials
The following substances and materials are listed for the purposes of Article 6 of the present Convention.
The list ist valid for substances and materials intro­
duced as waterborne into the marine environment. The
3. Phenols and their derivatives.
4. Phthalic acid and its derivatives.
7. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and their deriva­
8. Persistent toxic organosilicic compounds.
9. Persistent pesticides, including organophosphoric and organostannic pesticides, herbicides, slimicides and chemicals used for the preservation of wood, timber, wood pulp, cellulose, paper, hides and "textiles, hot covered by the provisions of Annex I of the present" Convention .
11. Acids , alkalis and surface concentrations or big quantities.
12. Oil and wastes of petrochemical and other industries containing lipid-soluble substances.
13. Substances having adverse effects an the taste and/ or smell of products for Jiuman consumption from the sea, or effects on taste, smell, colour, transparency or other characteristics of the water seriously reduc­ ing its amenity values.
14. Materials and substances which may float, remain in suspension'or sink, aud which may seriously inter­ fere with any legitimate use of the sea.
15. Lignin substances contained in industrial waste wat­ ers.
1G. The chelators EDTA (ethylenedinitrilotetraacetic acid
or ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid) and DTPA (die­ thylenetriaminopentaacetic acid).
practicable means to prevent harmful substances and materials from being introduced as airborne into the Baltic Sea Area.
1. Mercury, cadmium, and their compounds.
2. Antimony, arsenic, beryllium, chromium, copper, lead, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, tin, vanadium, zinc, and their compounds, as well as elemental phos­ phorus.
 Goals, Criteria and Measures concerning the Prevention of Land-Based Pollution
In accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties shall endeav­ our to attain the goals and apply the criteria . and measures enumerated in this Annex in order to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area. .
1. Municipal sewage shall be treated in an appropriate way so that the amount of organic matter does not cause harmful changes in the oxygen content of the Baltic Sea Area and the amount of nutrients does not cause harmful eutrophication of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Municipal sewage shall also be treated in an ap­ propriate. way to ensure-that the hygienic quality, and in particular epidemiological and toxicological_safety, of the receiving sea area is maintained at a level which does not cause harm to human health, and in a way that under the given composition of the sewage no significant amount of such harmful substances as are listed in An­ nexes I and II of the present Convention is formed.
3. The polluting load of industrial wastes shall be minimized in an appropriate way in order to Teduce the amount of harmful substances, organic matter and nutrients.
5. The discharge of cooling water from nuclear power plants or other kinds of industries using large amounts of water shall be effected in a way which minimizes the pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
4. The means referred to in Paragraph 3 of this Annex
shall in particular include minimization of production
and improvement of qualifications for water treatment.
In the treatment of waste water mechanical, chemidal,
biological and other measures, according to the quality
of the waste water, and as required to maintain or im­
prove the quality of the recipient water, shall be applied.
6. The Commission will define pollution control criteria, objectives for reduction of pollution and objectives con­
 Prevention of Pollution from Ships Regulation 1
The Contracting Parties shall as appropriate co-operate and assist each other in initiating action by the Inter- Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization to develop :
a) international rules for navigation of deep draught ships in narrow and shallow waters in international waters of the Baltic Sea Area and in the entrances
to the Baltic Sea for the prevention of collisions, strandings and groundings;
b) an international radio reporting system for large ships en route within the Baltic Sea Area as well as for
.'ships carrying a significant amount of a harmful substance .
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, as appropriate assist each other in investigating viola­ tions of the existing legislation on antipollution meas­ ures, which have occurred or are suspected to have occurred within the Baltic Sea Area. This assistance may include but is not limited to inspection by the competent authorities of oil record books, cargo record books, log books and engine log books and taking oil samples for analytical identification purposes and in respect of the system of tagging oil residues.
For the purposes of this Annex :
1. "Ship" means a vessel of any type whatsoever operat­ ing in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag of;. any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms' engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal State concerned.
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances , means any release howsoever caused from a ship and includes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pumping, emitting or emptying ;
(i) (lumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping-of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1372; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration, -exploitation and asso-
 cidted off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral resources; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
4. "Nearest land". The term "from the nearest land*
moans from the baseline from which the territorial sea
of the territory in question is established in accord­ ance with international law.
5. The term "jurisdiction" shall be interpreted in accord­ ance with international law in force at the time of application or interpretation of this Annex.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1 January 1977 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on methods /or the prevention of pollution by oil 'from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
"Oil" means petroleum in any form including crude oil, .fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products (other than petrochemicals which are subject to the provisions of Regulation 5 of this Annex) and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing* includes the substances listed in Appendix I to this Annex.
"Oily mixture" means a mixture with any oil content.
" Oil fuel " means any oil used as fuel in connection with the propulsion and auxiliary machinery of the ship in which such oil is carried.
primarily to carry oil in bulk in its cargo spaces and includes combination carriers and .any "chemical tanker" as defined in Regulation 5 of this Annex when it is carrying a cargo or part cargo of oil in bulk.
5. "Combination carrier" means a ship designed to carry either oil or solid cargoes in bulk.
6. 'Clean ballast" means the ballast in a tank which 6. Der Ausdruck .sauberer Ballast" bezeichnet den
since oil Was last carried therein has been so cleaned that effluent therefrom if it were discharged from a
ship which is stationary into clean calm water on a clear day would not produce visible traces of oil on the surface of the water or on adjoining shore lines or cause a sludge or emulsion . to be deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining shore lines. If the ballast is discharged through an oil dischaige monitoring and control system approved by the Administration, evidence based on such a system to the effect that the oil content of the effluent did not exceed 15 parts per million shall be determinative that the ballifit was clean, notwithstanding the presence of visible traces.
 7. "Segregated ballast* means the ballast water intro­ duced into a tank which is completely separated from the. cargo oil and oil fuel system and which is permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious substances as variously defined in the Regula­ tions of this Annex.
B Control of Discharge of Oil
1. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures from any oil tanker and any ship of 400 tons gross tonnage and above other than an oil tanker shall be prohibited, while in the Baltic Sea Area;
b) such ships while in the Baltic Sea Area shall retain on board all oil drainage and sludge, dirty ballast and tank washing waters and discharge them only to reception facilities.
2. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this
Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oib or oily
mixtures from a ship of less than 400 tons gross tonnage,
other than an oil tanker, shall be prohibited while in the
Baltic Sea Area, except when the oil content of the das Schiff im Ostseegebiet aufhält, es sei denn, daß der
effluent without dilution does not exceed 15 parts per million or alternatively when all of the following condi­ tions are satisfied :
(i) the ship is proceeding en route;
(ii) the oil content of the effluent is less than 100 parts per million; and
(iii) the discharge is made as far as practicable from the land, but in no case less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land ;
b) no discharge into the sea shall contain chemicals or other substances in quantities or concentrations which are hazardous to the marine environment or chemicals
or o-ther substances introduced for the purpose of circum­ stellen, oder Chemikalien oder sonstige Stoffe enthalten, venting the conditions of discharge specified in this die zur Umgehung der in dieser Regel niedergelegten
c) the oil residues which cannot be discharged into the sea in compliance with Sub-Paragraph 2a) of this Paragraph shall be retained on board or discharged to reception facilities.
3. The provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to the discharge of clean or segregated ballast. .
4. Whenever visible traces of oil are observed -on or
below the surface of the water in the immediate vicinity
of a ship or its wake, the Contracting Parties should, to
the extent they are reasonably able to do so, promptly parteien, soweit dies zumutbar und möglich ist, um­ investigate the facts bearing on the issue of whether gehend die mit der Frage, ob ein Verstoß gegen diese there, has been. a. violation of the provisions of this Regel vorliegt, zusammenhängenden Talsachen unter­
Regulation. The investigation should include, in particu­ lar , the wind and sea conditions , the track and speed of the ship, other possible sources of the visible traces in the vicinity, and any relevant oil discharge records.
Paragraph B of this Regulation shall not apply to:
necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment:
 (i) provided that all reasonable precautions have boen taken ofter the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted ■either \vi!h intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or
c) the discharge into the- sea of substances containing oil, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution in­ cidents in order lo minimize the damage from pollu­ tion. Any such discharge shall be subject to the approval of any Contracting Party in whose jurisdic­ tion it is contemplated the discharge will occur.
ft Special Requirements for Drilling Rigs and other Platfarms
Fixed and floating drilling rigs when engaged in the exploration , exploitation and associated offshore process­ ing of sea-bed mineral resources and other platforms shall 'comply with the requirements of this Regulation applicable to ships of 400 tons gross tonnage and above Other than oil tankers, except that:
a) they shall keep a record of all operations involving oil or oily mixture discharges, in a form approved by the Administration; and
b) subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, the discharge into the serf of oil or oily mixtures shall be prohibited except when the oil content of the discharge without dilution docs not exceed 15 parts per million.
H Reception Facilities of the Baltic Sea Area
The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure that not
later than 1 January 1977 all oil loading terminals and
repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area are provided with
facilities adequate for the reception and treatment of
all the dirty ballast and tank washing waters from , oil
tankers. In addition all ports, of the area shall be provided
with adequate reception facilities for other residues and biets mit ausreichenden Auffanganlagen für sonstige oily mixtures from all ships. Such facilities shall have
adequate capacity to meet the needs of the ships using them without causing undue delay.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible, but
not later than 1 January 1977 or at a date not later
than one year after the date of the entry into force of
the present Convention, whichever occurs later, decide
upon a date from which the provisions of Paragraphs A
lo D of this Regulation on the discharge of noxious ger Stoffe als Massengut aus Schiffen, die im Ostsee- liquid substances in bulk from ships while operating in gebiei betrieben werden, Anwendung finden. •
the Baltic Sea Area shall apply.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
adapted primarily to raVry a cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk and includes an "oil tanker" as
 defined in Regulation 4 of this Annex when carrying a cargo or part cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk .
2. "Clean ballast" means ballast carried in a tank which, since it was last used to carry a cargo containing a substance in Category A, B, C, or D has been thor­ oughly cleaned and the residues resulting therefrom have been discharged and the tank emptied in accord­ ance with the appropriate requirements of this Regula­ tion.
3. "Segregated ballast" means ballast -water introduced into a tank permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious liquid substances as variously defined in the Regulations of this Annex, and which is completely separated from the cargo and oil fuel system.
4. "Liquid substances" are those having a vapour pres­ sure not exceeding 2.8 kp/cm! at a temperature of 37.8 °C. '
designated in Appendix III to this Annex or provi­ sionally ' assessed under the provisions of Sub-Para­ graph 4 of Paragraph B of this Regulation as falling into Category A, B, C, or D:
B Categorization and Listing of Noxious Liquid Substances
1. For the purposes of this Regulation noxious liquid substances shall be divided into four categories as fol­ lows:
a) Category A – noxious liquid substances .which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a major hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause serious harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of stringent anti-pollution measures ;
b) Category B – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal- Jasting operations would present a hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of special anti-pollu­ tion measures;
c) Category C – noxious liquid substances which if c) Gruppe C schädliche flüssige Stoffe, die, wenn sie
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a minor hazard to cither marine . resources or human health or cause minor harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore require special operational conditions ;
d) Category D – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a recognizable hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause minimal harm to amenities or other legiti­ mate uses of the sea .and therefore require some attention in operational conditions.
 2. Guidelines for use in the categorization of noxious liquid substances are given in Appendix II to this Annex.
3. The list of noxious liquid substances carried in bulk and presently categorized which are subject to the provi­ sions of tiiis Regulation is set out in Appendix III to this Annex.
4. Where it is proposed to carry a liquid substance in bulk which has not been categorized under Sub-Para­ graph 1 ot this Paragraph or 'evaluated as referred to in Sub-Parugraph 1 of Paragraph C of this Regulation the Contracting Parties involved in the proposed operation shall establish and agree on a provisional assessment for the proposed operation on the basis of the guidelines referred to in Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph. Until full agreement between the Governments involved has been reached, the substance shall be carried under the most severe conditions proposed.
1. The substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex have been evaluated and found to fall outside the Categories A, B, C, and D, as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph B of this Regulation because they are presently considered to present no harm to human health, marine resources, amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea, when discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or deballasting operations.
2. The discharge of bilge or ballast water or other residues or mixtures containing only substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex shall not be subject to any requirement of this Regulation.
3. The discharge into the sea of cleaft ballast or ment of this Regulation,
D Discharge of Noxious Liquid Substances
Subject to the provisions of Paragraph E of this Regu­ lation :
1. The discharge into the sea of substances in Category A as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of Para­ graph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures c'ontaining such substances shall be prohibited. If tanks containing such substances or mixtures are to be washed, the resulting residues shall be discharged to a reception facility which the Contract­ ing Parties shall provide in accordance with Paragraph H of this Regulation, until the concentration of the sub­ stance in the effluent to such facility is at or below the residual conce'ntfation prescribed for that substance in column IV of Appendix III to this Annex and until the tank is empty. Provided that the residue then remaining in the tank is subsequently diluted by the addition of a volume of water of not less than 5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, it may be discharged into the sea when all the following conditions are also satisfied:
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a -speed of at least 1 knots in the case of self-propelled .ships or at least A knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled;
12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not !-js3 than 25 metres.
 2. The discharge into the sea of substances in (2) Das Einleiten ins Meer von Stoffen der Gruppe B Category B as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of Para- im Sinne des Abschnitts B Absatz 1 Buchstabc b Oder graph B of this Regulation or of those provisionally von vorlaufig als solche bewerteten Stoffen oder von assessed as such or ballast water, tank wc.hings, or Ballastwasser, Tankwaschwasser odcr sonstigen Ruck-
other residues or mixtures containing such substanccs
shall be prohibited except when all the following condi- lions are satisfied :
a) the tank has been washed after unloading with a volume of water of not less than 0.5 per cent of the tolal volume of the tank, and the resulting residues have been discharged to a reception facility until the tank is empty;
b) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of. ships which are not self- propelled ;
c) the procedures and arrangements for discharge and washings are approved by the Administration and . shall ensure that the concentration and rate of dis- charge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the wake astern of the ship .does
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, rtaking inlo account the location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not less than 25 metres.
3. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate­ gory C as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Paragraph B of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast watei, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro­ hibited except when all the following conditions are satisfied : . *,
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are no', self- - propelled;
the maximum quantity of cargo discharged from each c) die Höchstmenge der aus jedem Tank und dem dazu­
approved by the Administration and shall er.sure that the concentration and rate of discharge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the
wake astern of the ship does not exceed 1 part per million ;
tank and its associated piping system does Hot exceed the maximum quantity approved in accordance with . the procedures referred to in Sub-Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph which shall in no case exceed the greater of 1 cubic metre or 1/3.000 of the tank capac­ ity in cubic metres ;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account thfe location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth -
. of water of not less than 25 metres.
4. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate-
gory D as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Paragraph B
of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as
such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues
or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro-
hibited except when all the following conditions are halton, ist verboten, sofern nicht alle folgenden Bedin-
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case?of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled? • •
 h) such mixtures are of a concentration not greater than b) die Gemische habon *>ino Konzentration von höch­ • one part of the substance in ten parts of w<itcr; and stens einem Teil des jeweiligen Stoffes auf zehn Teile
12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
5. Ventilation procedures approved by the Administra­ tion may be used to remove cargo residues from a tank.. If subsequent washing of the tank is necessary, the discharge into the sea of the resulting tank washings shall be made in accordance with Sub-Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, or 4 of this Paragraph, whichever is applicable.
6. The discharge into the sea of substances which have not been categorized, provisionally assessed, or evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Para­ graph C of this Regulation, or of ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited.
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall not apply to:
the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or
the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances resulting from
. damage to a ship or its equipment:
(i) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted either with intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result ; or
c) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution incidents in order to minimize the damage from pollution. Any such dis­ charge shall be subject to the approval of any Con­ tracting Party in whose jurisdiction it is contemplated
. the discharge will occur.
F MeasuresofControl
1. The Contracting Parties shall appoint or authorize surveyors for the purpose of implementing this Para­ graph .
2. a) If a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pump­ ing or transfer operation carried out in connection with that lank shall also be entered in the' Cargo Record Book.
3. If Ilie tank is to be washed:
a) the effluent from the tank washing operation shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility at least until the concentration of the substance in the
discharge, as indicated by analyses of samples of the effluent taken by the surveyor, has fallen to the residual concentration specified for that substance In Appendix III to u..s Annqx. Whc.i the required re-
 sidual concentration has been achieved , remaining ' tank washings shall continue to be discharged to the reception facility until the tank is empty. Appropriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo
Record Book and certified by the surveyor; and
b) after diluting the residue then remaining in the tank with at least 5 per cent of the tank capacity of water, this mixture may be discharged into the sea in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Sub-Paragraphs 1 a),
-b), and c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. Ap­ propriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
4. Where the Government of the receiving Party is
satisfied that it is impracticable to measure the concen­
tration of the substance in the effluent without causing
graph 3 a) of this Paragraph provided that :
a) a precleaning procedure for that tank and that sub­ - stance is approved by the Administration and that Party is satisfied that such procedure will fulfil the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph D of this Regulation with respect to the attainment of the
b) a surveyor duly authorized by that Party shall certify in the Cargo Record Book that:
(i) the tank, its pump and piping system have been emptied, and that the quantity of cargo remaining in the tank is at or below the quantity on which the approved precleaning procedure referred to in Sub-Paragraph (ii) of this Sub-Paragraph has been based ;
(ii) precleaning has been carried out in accordance with the precleaning procedure approved by the Administration for that tank and that substance; and
(iii) the tank washings resulting from such preclean­ ing have been discharged to a reception facility and the tank is empty ;
c) the discharge into the sea of any remaining residues c) sofern das Einleiten etwaiger verbleibender Rück­
shall . be in accordance with the provisions of Sub- Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may-..be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Category B substance, ensure compliance with the following :
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pumping or transfer operation carried out in connection with that tank shall also be entered in the Cargo Record Book ;
c) if the tank is to be washed, the effluent from the tank washing operation, which shall contain a volume of water not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility until the tank, its pump and piping system are empty. An appropriate entry shall be mode in the Cargo Record Book;
d) if the tank is to be further cleaned and emptied at sea, the Master shall:
 (i) ensure that the approved procedures referred to , in Sub-Paragraph 2 c) of Paragraph D of this Regu­ lation are complied with and that the appropriate entries are made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(ii) ensure that any discharge into the sea. is made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Para­ graph 2 of Paragraph D of this Regulation and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book ;
o) if after unloading a Category B substance, any res­ idues of tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the Baltic Sea Area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
6. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the
authorized or appointed surveyor as may be deemed
necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship
shall, with respect to a Category C substance,,ensure tän eines Schiffes im Hinblick auf einen Stoff der compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not . cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
b) if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
. (ii) the quantity of substance remaining in the tank shall not exceed the maximum quantity which may be discharged into the sea for that sub­ stance under Sub-Paragraph 3 c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. An appropriate efltry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; !
(iii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea the approved procedures shall be complied with, and the necessary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An ap­ propriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(iv) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(v) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 3 of "Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
c) if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
(i) the tank- washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location and disposition of the tank washings;
d) if after unloading a Category C substance within the Baltic Sea Area, any residues or tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
7. The Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Cate­ gory D substance, ensure compliance with the following:
 a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
(ii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea, the neces­ sary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An appro­ priate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
(iii) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(iv) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 4 of 'Para­ graph D of this Regulation ;
if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
–(i) the tank washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion- facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location and disposition of the tank washings.
8. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank,
including those from pump room bilges, which contain a
Category A or a Category B substance, shall be dis­
charged to a reception facility in accordance with the
this Regulation, whichever is applicable. An appropriate entry shall be made in the Caftjo Record Book.
9. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank, including those from pump room bilges, which contain a Category C substance in excess of the aggregate of the
maximum quantities specified in Sub-Paragraph 3c) of
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall be discharged to a
the Cargo Record Book. > :
1. Every ship to which this Regulation applies shall be provided with a Cargo Record Book, whether as part of the ship 's official log book or otherwise , in the form specified in Appendix V to this Annex.
2. The Cargo Record Book shall be completed, on a tank-to-tank basis, whenever any of the following opera­ tions with respect to a noxious liquid substance takes place in the ship :
loading of cargo ; unloading of cargo; transfer of cargo;
transfer of cargo, cargo residues or mixtures con­ taining cargo to -a slop tank ;
ballasting of cargo tanks; transfer of dirty ballast water;
discharge into the sea in accordance with Para­ graph D of this Regulation .
o transfer from slop tanks ;
cleaning of carg
 • 3. In the event of any discharge of the kind referred to in Annex VI of the present Convention and Para­ graph E of this Regulation of any noxious liquid sub­ stance or mixture containing such substance, whether intentional or accidental, an entry shall be made in tho Cargo Record Book stating the circumstances of, - and the reason for, the discharge.
4. When a surveyor appointed or outhorized' by a Contracting Party to supervise any operations under this Regulation has inspected a ship, then that surveyor shall make an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book,
5. Each operation referred to in Sub-Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Paragraph shall be fully recorded without delay in the Cargo Record Book so that all the entries in the Book appropriate to that operation are completed. Each entry shall be signed by the officer or officers in charge of the operation concerned and , when the ship is manned , each page shall be signed by the Master of 'the ship. The entries in the Cargo Record Book shall be in an official language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly, and, except when the ship is engaged in domestic voyages , in English or French . The entries in an official national language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly shall prevail in case of a dispute or discrepancy.
6. The Cargo Record Book shall be kept in such a place as to be readily available for inspection and, except in the case of unmanned ships under tow, shall be kept on board the ship. It shall be retained for a period of two years after the last entry has been made.
7. The competent authority of a Contracting Party may
inspect the Cargo Record Book on board any ship to Jcann das Ladungstagebuch an Bord jedes Schiffes, für
which this Regulation applies while the ship is in its port, and may make a copy of any entry in that Book and may require the Master of the ship to certify that the copy is a true copy of such entry. Any copy so made which has been certified by the Master of the ship as a true copy of an entry in the ship's Cargo Record Book shall be made admissible in any judicial proceedings as evidence of the facts stated in the entry. The inspection of a Cargo Record Book and the taking of a certified copy by the competent authority under this Paragraph shall be performed as expeditiously as possible without causing the ship to be unduly delayed.
1. The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure "the provision of reception facilities according to the needs of ships using their ports, terminals or repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area a§ follows:
a) cargo loading, and unloading ports and terminals shall have facilities adequate for reception without undue delay to ships of such residues and mixtures con­ taining noxious liquid substances as would remain for disposal from ships carrying them as a conse­ quence of the application of this Regulation; and
b) »hip repair ports undertaking repairs to chemical tan­ kers shall have facilities adequate for the reception of residues and mixtures containing noxious liquid substances.
2. Each Contracting Party shall determine the types of facilities provided fcr the purpose of Sub-Paragraph 1
poits, terminals and ship repair ports of the Baltic Sea*
Harmful substances in packaged forms
A. The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible apply suitable uniform rules for the carriage of harmful substances in packaged forms or in freight containers, portable tanks or road and rail tank wagons.
B. With respect to certain harmful substances, as may be designated by the Commission, the Master or owner of the ship or his representative shall notify the appro­ priate port authority of the intent to load or unload such substances at least 24 hours prior to such action.
C. A report of an incident involving harmful sub­ stances shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex VI of the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on discharge of sewage ships while operating in the Baltic Sea rArea.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
"New ship " means a ship :
a) for which the building contract is placed, or in the absence of a building contract, the keel of which is laid, or which is at a similar stage of construc­ tion, on or after the date of entry into force of the present Convention; or
b) the delivery of which is three years or more after the date of entry into force of the present Conven­ tion.
2. "Existing ship" means a ship which is not a new ship.
a) drainage and other wastes from any form of toilets, urinals, and WC scuppers;
drainage from medical premises (dispensary, sick bay, etc.) via wash basins, wash tubs and scuppers located in such premises ; . .
drainage from spaces containing living animals; or
other waste waters when mixed with the drainages, defined above .
4. "Holding tank" means a tank used for the collection and storage of sewage.
1. The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to:
a) new ships certified to carry more than 100 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1977;
b) existing ships certified to carry more than 400 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1978; and
and (iii), from dates decided by the Contracting Par­ ties on recommendation by the Commission :
(i) ships of 200 tons "gross tonnage and above ;
 (ii) ships of less' than 200 Ions gross tonnage which ore certified to carry more than 10 persons ;
(iii) ships which do not have a measured gross ton­ nage and arc certified to carry more than 10 per­ sons.
In the case of new such ships the date shall be not later
than 1 January 197!). In the case of existing such ships . the dale shall be not later than ten years after the date
decided for new ships.
2. A Contracting Party may, if it is satisfied that the application of the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of this Paragraph with respect to a certain ship would necessi­ tate constructional alterations which would be unreason­ able, exempt the ship from the application until a date not later than ten years after the date of entry into force of the present Convention.
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph D of this Regulation, the discharge of sewage into the sea is pro­ hibited, except when:
a) the ship is discharging comminuted and disinfected sewage using a system approved by the Administra­ tion at a distance of more than 4 nautical miles from
the nearest land, or sewage which is not comminuted or disinfected at a distance of more than 12 nautical
miles from the nearest land, provided that in any case the sewage that has been stored in holding tanks shall not be discharged instantaneously but at a moderate rate when the ship is en route and proceeding at not less than 4 knots : or
b) the ship has in operation a sewage treatment plant which has been approved by the Administration, and
(i) the test results of the plant are laid down in a document carried by the ship;
(ii) additionally, the effluent shall not produce visible floating solids in, nor cause discolouration of the surrounding water; or
c) the ship is situated in the waters under the jurisdic­ tion of a State and is discharging sewage in accord­ ance with such less stringent requirements as may be imposed by such State.
2. When the sewage is mixed with wastes of waste water having different discharge requirements, the.niore stringent requirements shall apply.
Paragraph C of.this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the discharge of sewage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge of sewage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment if all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the discharge.
1. Bach Contracting Parly undertakes to ensure the provision of facilities at its ports and terminals of rtie
 causing' undue delay to ships, adequate to meet the needs of the ships using them .
2. To enable pipes of reception facilities to be con­ nected with the ship's discharge pipeline, both lines shall be fitted with a standard discharge connection in accord­ ance with the following table :
Standard Dimensions ol Flanges lor Discharge Connections
Slo.ts in flange
Flange thickness
Bolts and nuts : quantity and diameter
According to pipe outside diameter
equidistantly placed on a bolt circle of the above
diameter, slotted to the flange periphery. The slot width to be 18 mm
4, each of 16 mm in diam­ eter and of suitable length
The flange is designed to accept pipes up to a maxi­ mum internal diameter of 100 mm and shall be of steel
or oilier equivalent material having a flat face. This flange, together with a suitable gasket, shall be suitable for a service pressure of 6 kg/cni!.
For ships having a moulded depth of 5 metres and less,
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1*January 1976 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on the disposal of garbage from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
"Garbage" means .i" kinds of victual, domestic and
operational waste excluding fresh fish and parts thereof,
generated during the normal Operation of the ship and regelmäßigen Abstanden zu beseitigenden Arien von liable to be disposed of continuously or periodically ex- Speise-, Haushalts- und Betriebsabfall, ausgenommcn
copt those substance*which are defined or listed in other Regulations of this Annex.
 B DisposaI of Garbage
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs C and D of Ihis Regulation:
a) disposal into the sea of the following is prohibited:
(i) all plastics, including but not limited to synthetic ropes, synthetic fishing nets and plastic garbage bags: and
(ii) all other garbage, including paper products, rags, glass, metal, bottles, crockery, dunnage, lining and packing materials ;
b) disposal into the sea of food wastes shall be made as far as practicable from land, but in any case not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
2. When the garbage is mixed with other discharges having different disposal or discharge requirements the more stringent requirements shall apply.
C Special Requirement's for Fixed and Floating Platlorms r
1. Subject to the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph, .the disposal of any materials regulated by this Regulation is prohibited from fixed or floating plat­ forms . engaged in the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral re­ sources, and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms.
2. The disposal into the sea of food wastes may be permitted when they have passed through a comminuter or grinder from such fixed or floating platforms' located more than 12 nautical miles from land and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms. Such comminuted or ground food wastes shall be capable of passing through a screen with openings no greater than 25 millimetres.
Paragraphs B and C of this Regulation shall not apply to :
a) the disposal of garbage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or
b) the escape o'f garbage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment provided all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage, for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the escape; 6r •
c) the accidental loss of synthetic fishing nets or syn­ thetic material incidental to the repair of such nets, provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken to prevent such loss.
Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the pro­ vision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the Baltic Sea Area for the reception of garbage, without causing undue delay to ships, and according to the needs of the ships using them.
. Aromatic Oil (excluding vegetable oil) Lubricating Oils and Blending
Appendix I List of Oils *)
•) The list of oflj shall not necessarily be considered as comprehensive *
Guidelines for the Categorization of Noxious Liquid Substances
Substances which are bioaccumulaled and liable to
which are highly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 4, defined by a TLm less than 1 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are moderately toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 or more, but less than 10 ppm) when particular weight is given to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics Of the substance .
Substances which arc "bioaccumulaled with a short
retention of the order of one week or less; or which are liable to produce tainting of the -sea food ; or which are moderately toxic to acquatic life (as expressed by a Haz­ ard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 ppm or more, but less than 10 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of 10 ppm or more, but less than 100 ppm) when particular weight is given to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics of the substance.
Substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as
expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of sind (ausgedrückt durch Gefahrenstufe 2, bezeichnet 10 or more, but less than 100 ppm); and additionally cer­ durch eine TLm von 10 oder mehr, aber weniger als tain substances which are practically non-toxic to aquatic 100 ppm ) sowie bestimmte Stoffe , die praktisch ungiftig life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a für Wasserpflanzen und -tiere sind (ausgedrückt durch TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than 1.000 ppm) when Gefahrenstufe 1, bezeichnet durch eine TLm von . 100 particular weight is given to additional factors in the oder mehr, aber weniger als 1 000 ppm), Venn zusätz­
hazard profile or to special characteristics of the sub­ stance.
Substances which are practically non-tpxic to aquatic
life , (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1 , defined by a
TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than - 1.000 ppm); or
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD); or highly hazardous to human health, with an LDJO of less than 5 mg/kg; or produce moderate reduction of amenities because of persistency, smell or poisonous or irritant characteristics, possibly interfering with use of beaches; or moderately hazardous to human health, with an LDJO of 5 mg/kg or more, but loss than 50 mg/kg and produce slight reduc­ tion of amenities.
Other Liquid Substances (for the purposes of Paragraph C of Regulation 5)
Substances other than those categorized in Cate­ gories A, B, C, and D above.
(Paragraph D ( 1) of
the Baltic Sea Area
Acetic anhydride
Acrylic acid *) Acrylonitnle Adiponitrile
Allyl alcohol . .
Aminocthylethanolamine (Hydroxyethyl-ethy-
Calcium hydroxide (solution) Camphor oil
List of Noxious Liquid Substances carried in Bulk
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
•) Asterisk indicates that tho substance bas been provisionally included In this list arH that further data are necessary In order to complete the evaluation ol its enviionntcutai hazards, particularly in relation to living resources.
Caustic potash (Potassium hydroxide) Chloroacetic acid
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
para-Cymene (Isopropvltoluene) *) Decahydronaphthalene
(D.D. Soil fumigant) Diethylamine
Diisopropyl ether *)
■Dimethylamine (40Vo aqueous) Dimethylethanolamine
(2-DimethyIaminoethanol) *) Dimcthylformamide
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally included in this list and that further data ore necessary in order to complete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in relation to Ifving resources.
II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Ethylene chlorohydrin (2-Chloro-ethanol)
rleptanoic acid *) Hexamethylenediamine *)
Hydrofluoric acid (40 °/o aqueous) Hydrogen peroxide (greater than 60 %) Isobutyl acrylate
Isopropyl cyclohexane Isoprene
Methyl acrylate Methylamyl alcohol Methylene chlonde 2-Methyl-5-Ethylpyridine *) Methyl methacrylate 2-Methypentene *)
Pollution Category for oper- ■
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
I II III IV Within
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally included In this list and lhat further dala are necessary In order lo complete
the evaluation of its environmental hazards, pailicularly in relation lo living resource. 36
the Baltic Sea Area
Phthalic Anhydride (molten) beta-Propiolactone *)
Propionic anhydride
Monoisopropylamine * Morpholine *) Naphthalene (molten) Naphthenic acids *) Nitric acid (90 °/o) 2-Nitropropane ortho-Nitrotoluene Nonyl alcohol •) Nonvlphcnol
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
I II III IV Within
♦) Asterisk indicates (hat tho substance has been provisionally Included In this list and that further data are necessary in order to complete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in relatfon to living resources.
the Baltic Sea Area
Tritolyl phosphate (Tricresyl phosphate) *)
Xylenes (mixed isomers)
(Paragraph D (1) of
IV Within the Baltic Sen Area
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally included In this )J«t and that further data are necessary ih order to complete the evaluation ol its environmental hazards, particularly in relation to living resources.
Aminoathyl-athanolamin (Hydroxyathylathylen-
n-Butylacctat sec-Butylacetat n-Butylacrylat
para-Cymol (Isopropyltoluol) *) Decahydronaphthalin
Dibenzylâther *)
Diâthylather
Diäthylentriamin •) Diäthylenglycol-monoäthyläther
Dimethylamin (40°/# wasserhaltig) Dimethylâthanolamin (2-Dimethylaminoàthanol) *) Dimethylformamid
Isopropylcyclohexan
Athylenglycol-monoäthyläther (Methylkolloidlôsung) '
Triäthylamin Trimethylbenzol •) Tritolylphosphat •)
(Trikresvlphosphat) Terpentin (Holz) Vinylacetat Vinylidenchlorid •) Xylole (Isomerengemisch)
Decyl octyl alcohol Dibutyl ether Diethanolamine Diethylene glycol Dipentene
Heptene (mixed isomers)
carried in Bulk
Cargo Record Books for Ships carrying Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk
Name of ship
Cargo carrying capacity of each tank in cubic metres
Voyage from
1. Date and place of loading .
- 2. Name and category of cargo(es) loaded
3. Identity of tank(s) loaded
b) Transfer of cargo
4. Date of transfer
5. Identity of tank(s) (i) From ii) To
7. If not, quantity remaining
c) Unloading of cargo
8. Date and place of unloading 9. Identity of tank(s) unloaded
11. If not, quantity remaining in tank(s)
12. Is (are) tank(s) to be cleaned? 13. Amount transferred to slop tank 14. Identity of slop tank -
d) Ballasting of cargo tanks
15. Identity of tank(s) ballasted
16. Date and position of ship a't start of ballasting
e) Clearing of cargo tanks Calegory A substances
17. Identity of tank(s) cleaned
18. Date and location of cleaning
19. Method(s) of cleaning
20. Location of reception facility used
21. Concentration of effluent when discharge to recep­ tion facility stopped
22. Quantity remaining in tank
23. Procedure and amount of water introduced into tank in final cleaning
24 . Location , date of discharge into the sea
25. Procedure and^equipment used in discharge into the sea
: Signature of Master 46
 Category B, C, and D substances
26. Washing procedure used
27. QViantity of water used
28. Date, location of discharge into the sea
29. Procedure and equipment used in discharge into the sea
f) Transfer of dirty ballast water
30. Idcntity of tank(s)
31. Date and position of ship at start of discharge into the sea
34. Quantity discharged into the sea
32. Date and position into the sea
of . ship
35. Quantity of polluted water transferred to slop tank(s) (identify slop'tanks(s))
36. Date and port of discharge'to reception facilities (if applicable)
g) Transfer from slop tank/disposal of residue
37. Identity of slop tank(s)
38. Quantity disposed from each tank
39. Method of disposal of residue:
(b) Mixed with cargo
(c) Transferred to another (other) tank(s) (identify
(d) Other method
40. Date and port of disposal of residue h) Accidental or other exceptional discharge
Date and time of occurrence
Place or position of ship at time of occurrence
Approximate quantity, name and category of substance
Circumstanccs of disdiarge or escape and gèneral reraarks .
Signature of Master
 a) issue special permits provided for in Regulation 1 of this Annex;
b) keep records of the nature and quantities of matter permitted to be dumped and the location, time and method of dumping;
c) collect available information concerning the nature and quantities of matter that has been dumped in the Baltic Sea Area recently and up to the coming into force of the present Convention, provided that the
■ dumped matter in question could be liable to cont­ aminate water or organisms in the Baltic: Sea Area, to be caught by fishing equipment, or otherwise to give rise to harm , and the location , time and method of such dumping.
2. The appropriate national' authority shall issue special permits in accordance with Regulation 1 of this Annex in respect of matter intended for dumping in the BalticSeaArea:' "
a) loaded in its territory ;
Exceptions from the General Prohibition of Dumping of Waste and other Matter in the Baltic Sea Area
In accordance with Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the present Convention the prohibition of dumping shall not apply lo the disposal at sea of dredged spoils provided that:
1. they do not contain significant quantities and concen­ trations of substances to be defined by the Commis­ sion and listed in Annexes I and II of the present Con­ vention ; and
2. the dumping is carried out under a prior special permit given by the appropriate national authority, either
a) within the area of the territorial sea of the Con­ tracting Party; or
b) outside the area of the territorial sea, whenever necessary, after prior consultations in the Com­ mission.
When issuing such permits the Contracting Party shall comply with the provisions in Regulation 3 of this Annex.
1. The appropriate national authority referred to in
3. When issuing permits under Sub-Paragraph 1 a)
tory or flying its flag, when the loading occurs in the territory of a State not Party to the present Conven­ tion.
4. Each Contracting Party shall report to the Commis- sion, and where appropriate to other Contracting Parties, the information specified in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regu- lation 2 of this Annex. The procedure to be followed and the nature of such reports shall be determined by the Commission.
When issuing special permits according to Regulation 1 of this Annex the appropriate national authority shall take into account:
1. Quantity of dredged spoils to be dumped.
2. The content of the matter referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention.
3. Location (e.g. co-ordinates of the dumping area, depth and distance from coast) and its relation to areas of special interest (e.g. amenity areas, spawning, nursery and fishing areas, etc.).
4. Water characteristics, if dumping is carried out out­ side the territorial sea, consisting of:
a) hydrographic properties (e. g. temperature, salinity, density, profile);
c) biological properties (e. g. primary production and benthic animals).
The data should include sufficient information on the annual mean levels and the seasonal variation of the properties mentioned in this Paragraph.
5, The existence and effects of other dumping which 5. may have been carried out in the dumping area.
Article 9 of the present Convention shall include the müssen folgende Angaben enthalten: following information:
material, and counter measures taken:
a) location (e. g. co-ordinates of the accidental dump­ ing site, depth and distance from'the coast);
b) method of deposit ;
. c) quantity and composition of dumped matter as well as its physical (e. g. solubility and density), chemi­ cal and biochemical * e. g. oxygen demand, nutrients), and biological properties , (e. g. presence
of viruses, bacteria, yeasts, parasites);
d) toxicity ;
e) content of the substances referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention ;
f) dispersal characteristics (e. g. effects of currents and wind, and horizontal transport and vertical mixing);
g) water characteristics (e.g. temperature, pH, redox conditions, salinity and stratification);
h) bottom characteristics (e. g. topography, geological characteristics and redox conditions );
i) counter measures taken and follow-up operations i) carried out or planned.
2. General considerations and conditions:
a) possible effects on amenities (e. g. floating or stranded material, turbidity, objectionable odour, discolouration and foaming);
 b) possible effect on marine life, fish and shellfish culture, fish stocks and fisheries, seaweed harvest­ ing and cultures; and
c) possible effects on other uses of the sea (e.g. impairment of water quality for industrial use, underwater corrosion of structures, interference with ship operations from floating materials, inter­ ference with fishing or navigation and protection of areas of special importance for scientific or conservation purposes)
For the purposes of this Annex :
1. "Ship* means a vessel of any type whatsoever operating in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag of any Stale, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the .coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Govdrnment of the coastal
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances, means any ' release howsoever caused from a ship and in­
eludes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pump­ ing, emitting or emptying.
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972 ; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated offshore processing of sea-bed mineral resources ; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
The Contracting Parties undertake to maintain ability to combat spillages of oil and other harmful substances on the sea. This ability shall include adequate equip­ ment, ships and manpower prepared for operations in coastal waters as well as on the high sea.
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, devel­ op and apply, individually or in co-operation, surveillance activities covering the Baltic Sea Area, in order to spot and monitor oil and other harmful substances released into the sea.
In the case of loss overboard of harmful substances in packages, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons, tRe Contracting Parties shall co-opcrate in the salvage and recovery of such packages, containers
or tanks so as to minimize the danger to the environ­ ment.
I. The Contracting Parlies shall develop and apply a system for receiving, channeling and dispatching reports on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea, as well as any incident causing or likely to cause any kind of significant pollution.
2. The Contracting Parties shall request masters of ships and pilots of aircraft to report without delay in accordance with this system on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea. Such reports should as far as possible contain the following data: time, position, wind and sea conditions, and kind, extent and probable source of the spill observed.
3. The master of a ship involved in an incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation, or other person having charge of the ship, shall without delay and to the fullest extent possible report in accordance with this system and with the provisions of the Appfendix to the present Annex.
4. Each- Contracting Party undertakes to issue instruc­ tions to its maritime inspection vessels and aircraft and to other appropriate services, to report to its authorities any observation or incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation. Such reports shall as far as possible contain the data referred to in Paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Regulation respectively, as well as possible indications on the spreading or drifting tendencies of the spill in question.
5. Whenever a Contracting Party is aware of a casualty or the presence of spillages of oil or other harmful substances in the Baltic Sea Area likely to constitute a serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area or the coast or related interests of any other Contracting Party, it shall without delay transmit all relevant information thereon to the Contracting Party which may be affected by the pollutant and, as regards ship casualty incidents, to the Administration of the ship involved.
- Each Contracting Party shall request masters of ships flying its flag to provide, in case of an incident, on re­ quest by the proper authorities, such detailed informa­ tion about the ship and its cargo which is relevant to actions for preventing or combatting pollution of the sea, and to co-operate with these authorities.
1. a) The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible agree bilaterally or multilaterally on those regions of the Baltic Sea Area in which they will take action for combatting or salvage activities whenever a significant spillage of oil or other harmful substances or any in­ cidents causing or likely to cause pollution within the Baltic Sea Area have occurred or are likely to occur. Such agreements shall not prejudice any other agree­ ments concluded between Contracting Parties concerning the same subject. The neighbouring States shall ensure the harmonization of the different agreements. The Contracting Parties shall inform each other about such agreements.
The Contracting Parties may ask the Commission for assistance to reach agreement, if needed. *
occurs shall make the necessary assessments of the
situation' and take adequate action in order to avoid or
2. In the case that such a spillage is drifting or is likely to drift into a region, where another Contracting Party should take action for purposes as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of this Regulation, that Party shall without delay be informed of the situation and the actions that have been taken .
A Contracting Party requiring assistance for combatting
spillages of oil or other harmful substances, at sea is kämpfung treibender Felder von öl oder sonstigen entitled to call for assistance by other Contracting Schadstoffen auf See benötigt, ist berechtigt, andere. Ver­ Parties, starting with those who seem likely also to be tragsparteien um Hilfe zu bitten, und zwar zuerst die­ affected by the spillage. Contracting Parties called upon
for assistance in accordance with this Regulation shall
use their best endeavours to bring such assistance. .
1. The Contracting Parties shall provide information to the other Contracting Parties and the Commission about
a) their national organization for dealing with spillages at sea of oil and other harmful substances;
. b) . national regulations and other matters which have a direct bearing on combatting pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances; *
c) the competent authority responsible for receiving and dispatching reports of pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances;
d) the competent authorities for dealing with questions concerning measures of mutual assistance, informa­ tion and co-operation between the Contracting Parties according to this Annex; ;
e) . actions taken in accordance with Regulation 8 of this . e) die nach Regel 8 getroffenen Maßnahmen. Annex.
2. The Contracting Parties shall exchange information of research and development programs and" results' con­ cerning ways in which pollution by oil and other harmful substances at sea may be dealt with and experiences in combatting such pollution.
The authorities referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Regulation 9 of this Annex shall establish direct contact and co-operate in operational matters.
on Incidents Involving Harmful Substances
Duty to Report
1. The Master of a ship involved in an incident re­ ferred to in Regulation 3 of this Appendix, or other per­ son having charge of the ship, shall report the particulars of such incident without delay and to the fullest extent possible in accordance with the provisions of this Appendix .
2. In the event of the ship referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation being abandoned, or in the event of a report from such ship being incomplete or unobtainable, the owner, charterer, manager or operator of the ship, or their agents shall, to the fullest extent possible assume the obligations placed upon the Master under the provi­ sions of this Appendix.
1. Each report shall be made by radio whenever possible, but in any case by the fastest channels avail­ able at the time the report is made. Reports made by radio shall be given the highest possible priority.
2. Reports shall be directed to the appropriate officer
tion 9 of Annex VI of the present Convention.
When to Make Reports
The report shall be made whenever an incident in­ volves :
a) a discharge other than as permitted under the present Convention! or
b) a discharge permitted under, the present Convention by virtue of the fact that:
(i) it is for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or 'saving life at sea ; or ...
(ii) it results from damage to the ship or its equip­ ment ; or
c) a discharge of a harmful substance for the purpose of combatting s specific pollution incident or for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abate­ ment or control ; or
Paragraph a), b), or c) of this Regulation...
Contents of Report .
a) the identity of ship;
b) the time and date of the occurrence of the incident;
c) the geographic position of the ship when the inciderft occurred ;
 <J) the wind end sea conditions prevailing at the time of - the incident; and
-e) relevant details respecting the condition of tlie ship.
2. Each report shall contain, in particular:
a) a clear indication or description of the harmful substances involved, including, if possible, the correct -technical names of such substances (trade names should not be used in place of the correct technical
■ b) a statement or estimate of the quantities, concentra­ tions and likely conditions of harmful substances discharged or likely to be discharged into the sea;
c) where relevant, a description of the packaging and • identifying marks ; and
d) if possible the name of the consignor, consignee or manufacturer.
3. Each report shall clearly indicate whether the harm­ ful substance discharged, or likely to be discharged is oil, a noxious liquid substance, a noxious solid substance, or–a noxious gaseous substance and whether such
' substance was or is carried in bulk or contained in packaged form, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons.
4. Each report shall be supplemented as necessary by any other relevant information requested by a recipient of the report or which the person sending the report deems appropriate.
Any person who is obliged under the provisions of this Appendix to send a report shall, when possible:
a) supplement the initial report, as necessary, with in- formation concerning further developments ; and
b) comply as fully as possible with requests from affect- ed States for additional information concerning the incident.
/\ concerning the opening of negotiations with a view to the
accession of the European Economic Community to the Helsinki Convention of ?.? '"arch 1974 on the protection of the marine
environment of the Baltic Sea ere ?
authorizing the Commission to open neqotiations with the s
non-member States borderinn the Baltic See with a view to . the accession of the European Economic Community to the Helsinki Convention of 22 Parch 1974 on the protection of
the marine -environment of the Celtic Sea area
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
concerning the opening of negotiations ; with a view to the accession cf the European Economic Community to the Helsinki Convention cf 22 March 1974 on the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area
1. On 22 March 1974, following a diplomatic conference held in Helsinki at the invitation of the Government of Finland, the representatives of Denmark , Finland , the German Democratic Republic , the Federal Republic of Germany, the Polish People's Republic, Sweden and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics adopted a Convention on the protection of the marine environment in the Baltic Sea area (1).' The text of this Convention is appended to this Recommendation.
Under this Convention the Contracting Parties will individually or conjointly take all appropriate measures - legislative, administrative or other - to prevent and reduce pollution and to protect and improve\the marine environment in the Baltic Sea area. \
In particular, Article 5 provides that the Contracting Parties undertake to adopt measures to counteract the introduction into the Baltic, Sea area of the dangerous substances listed in . Annex 1 to the Convention .
Article 6 stipulates that the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution.
Paragraph 2 of that Article states that the Contracting Parties
shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollution by the noxious,- substances and materials listed in Annex II to the Convention, and that to this end they shall inter alia cooperate in the development
and adoption of specific programmes,' guidelines, standards or regulations concerning discharges, environmental quality and products containing such substances and materials and their use .
(1) The Convention is not yet in force : only Finland and Sweden have ratified it so far
 (1) Article 6, paragraphs. 1,„ 2 and 3, original version :
guidelines, standards or regulations concerning discharges, environmental' quality and products containing such substances and materialsandtheir.,use.
The substances and materials, listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit,whichmaybeperiodicallyreviewed,by.,the.appropriate national authority".
The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area.
In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollution by noxious sub­ stances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present
Paragraph 3 of that Article stipulates that the substances and materials Listed in Annex II to the Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area in significant quantities ' without prior special permit, which may be periodically reviewed by the appropriate national authority (1)._
' Other Articles cover the prevention of pollution from ships, the prevention of deliberate discharge of substances (dumping) and so on.
Article 22 provides for the possibility of a general review of the Convention at the request of the Contracting Parties or of the Commission set up to administer it.
Article 23, paragraph. 1, provides for the possibility for each Contracting Party to propose amendments to the Articles of the Convention.
, . Article 25, paragraph 1, of the Convention stipulates that the provisions of the Convention may net be the subject of reservations.
"Article. 6 - Principles and obligations concerning land-based pollution.
T Convention. To this' end they: shall, interr alia, as appropriate coroperate in the development and adopti.on of specific programmes,
II. For its part, the European Communities' environmental action programme annexed to the statement of the Council and the Governments of the Member States meeting in Council and approved on 22 iiovember 1973, and the Resolution of the Council and of the Governments of the Member States
meeting in Council on the continuation and implementation of a European
Community policy and action proor,amne on the environment approved by the Council on 9 December 1976, provide for the implementation at Community
level of a number of measures to protect fresh water and sea water against pollution .
Pursuant to the 1973 Programme, several directives for the improve­ ment of water quality have been adopted by the Council : the Directive concernirtg the quality required of surface water intended for the abstraction of drinking water (1) and the Directive concerning the quality of bathing water (2).'The Commission has sent to the Council, which is now studying them, two draft Directives on other cuclity objectives - water capable of supporting shellfish and water capable of supporting freshwater fish (3).
On 4 Flay 1976, the Council adopted a Directive (4) on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharges into the aquatic environ­ ment of the Community* This Directive provides inter alia that the Community
/ fix limit values for emissions and quality objectives for a number of
dangerous substances, the list of which (given in an annex to the Directive) is very similar to that given in Annex II to the Helsinki Convention.
Finally , - by Decisions of : - 25 July 197? (5)
the Council authorized the Community to sign and conclude the 1974 Paris
(7) Council Decision of 9 December 1976
Convention on the prevention of marine pollution of the north-east Atlantic land-based sources,the 1976 Barcelona Convention on the protection of
the Mediterranean and the 1976 Bonn Convention cn the protection of the Rhine against chemical pollution.
III. As the Commission stated in its letter of 1 October 1976 to the Governments of Denmark and the Federal Republic of Germany, the decisions
taken at Community level, referred to above, to combat pollution of the aquatic environment of the Community have conferred powers on the European Economic Community such that the .Member States may not undertake commit­ ments with non-member countries which touch upon these powers under inter­ national Conventions relating to the control of pollution of a part of that environment. Since some of the Measures provided for in these'1'Con­ ventions henceforth fall within the ambit of competence of the Community, it is accordingly for the Community to contract the corresponding commit­ ments by becoming a Party to the Conventions.
In its Letter of 1 'October 1976, the Commission therefore asked the Governments of the two Member States concerned- not to 'initiate the procedure for ratifying that Convention until the Community had become' a Party thereto. - •• . •
It is in response to this' legal situation that the Commission re­ commends that the Council authorize it to open negotiations with a view to enabling the European Economic Community to become a Contracting Party to the Helsinki Convention . » ■ *
Until these negotiations have been concluded, the Member States which have signed this Convention should not ratify it, since they no
longer hold the powers necessary to undertake commitments on their own with non-Member States in the areas covered by the Convention.
IV. In conclusion , the Commission recommends that the . Council :
a) adopt the appended Decision concerning the opening of negotiations for the accession by the European Economic Community to the Convention on the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic, Sea area ;
b) asksttie Commission to inform the Governments of Finland, the Gorman Democratic Republic, the Polish People's Republic, Sweden and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of the decision referred to in point (a).
authorizing the Commission to open negotiations with the non-ficmbcr States bordering the Baltic Sea with a view to the accession cf the European Economic Community to the Helsinki Convention of 22 March 1974 on the protection cf the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area ;
Having regard ; to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community , Having regard to the recommendation by the Commission,
V?hercas the statement of the Council of the European Communities and of the representatives of. the Governments of the Member States of 22 Novem­ ber 1973, regarding the programme of action of the European Communities on the environment ( 1 ), emphasizes the importance for the Communities of the control of water pollution and provides for measures to this end;
Having regard to the Council Resolution of 9 December 1976 on the continuation and implementation cf a European Community policy and action programme
on the environment;
Whereas,pursuant to the programne presented, the Community has already adonted or is preparing to adopt directives to protect the aquatic environ­ ment of the Community; ' ^
Whereas in particular the Ccunfcil Directive of 4 May 1976 (2) on pollution caused by certain dangerous substances discharged into the aquatic environ­ ment of the Community provides that measures will be taken both by the Community and by the Member States to reduce water pollution and parti­ cularly pollution of inland surface waters and sea water;
Whereas the purpose of the Convention of 22 March 1974 on the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area is to protect the marine environment of the Baltic against the principal sources of
marine pollution and particularly those of land-based origin and those resulting fron the discharge of dangerous substances;
Miereas the Member States bordering the Baltic Sea may not, owing to the powers conferred upon the Community in the matter of the control of pol­
lution of the aquatic environment, alone undertake commitments with non-Member States in all the fields covered by the Helsinki Convention of 22 March 1974;
Whereas, accordingly, the European Economic Community ought to become a Party to this Convention alongside its Member States;
The Commission is hereby authorized to open negotiations with the non- Member States Party to the Convention of 22 March 1974 for the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea area with a view to the
accession of the Community to that Convention. ,
The Commission shall conduct these negotiations in consultation with the representatives of the flember States in accordance with the direc­ tives annexed to this Decision .
Done at Brussels ,
For the Council The President
 Directives for tho négociations»
The Convention of 22 March 1974 on the protection of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea area should be amended in such a way as to permit the European Economic Community to aiccede to it.
on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area
CONSCIOUS of the indispensable economic, social and cultural values of the marine environment of the
• Baltic Sea Area and its living resources for the peoples of the Contracting Parties;
BEARING in mind the exceptional hydrographlc and ecological characteristics of the Baltic Sea Area and the sensitivity of its living resources to changes in the environment;
NOTING the rapid development of human activities
at the Baltic Sea Area, the considerable population living
within its catchment area and the highly urbanized and
industrialized state of the Contracting Parties as well as' hohen Verstädterungs- und Industrialisierungsgrades der their intensive agriculture and forestry; Vertragsparteien sowie ihrer intensiven Land- und Forst­
NOTING with deep concern the increasing pollution
pipelines , dumping and normal operations of vessels as well as through airborne pollutants;
CONSCIOUS of the responsibility of the Contracting Parties to protect and enhance the values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area for the benefit of
their peoples ;
IN DER ERKENNTNIS, daß Schutz und Pflege der of the marine environment of "the Baltic Sea Area are Meeresumwelt des Ostseegebiets Aufgaben sind, die
RECOGNIZING that the protection and enhancement
tasks that cannot effectively be accomplished by national efforts only but that also close regional co-operation and other appropriate international measures aiming at fulfil­ ling these tasks are urgently needed ;
NOTING that' the relevant recent international con­
ventions even after having entered inlo force for the
requirements to protect and enhance the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area ;
NOTING the importance of scientific and technologi­ cal co-operation in the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, particu­ larly between the Contracting Parties;
'DESIRING to develop further regional co-opeiation in
of which were confirmed by the signing of the Conven­ durch die Unterzeichnung dei Konvenier, von 107^ über
tion on Fishing and Conservation ol the Living Resources
 CONSCIOUS of the importance of regional intergov­ ernmental co-operation in the protection of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area as an integral part of the peaceful co-operation and mutual understanding be­ tween all European States;
For the purposes of the present Convention "the Baltic Sea Area" shall be the Baltic Sea proper with the Gulf of Bothnia, the Gulf of Finland and the entrance to the Baltic Sea bounded by the parallel of the Skaw in the Skagerrak at 57 ° 44' 8" N. It does not include internal waters of the Contracting Parties.
For the purposes of the present Convention:
1. "Pollution" means introduction by man, directly or • indirectly, of . substances or energy into the marine environment, including estuaries, resulting in such deleterious effects as hazard to human health, harm to living resources and marine life, hindrance to legiti­ mate uses of the sea including fishing, impairment of the quality for use of sea water, and reduction of
2. "Land-based pollution" means pollution of the sea 2. Der Ausdruck .Verschmutzung* vom Land aus" be­
(i) any deliberate disposal at sea of wastes or other matter from vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;
(ii) any deliberate disposal at sea of vessels, air­ craft, platforms or other man^nade structures at sea;
caused by discharges from land reaching the -sea waterborne, airbome or directly from the cdast, in­ cluding outfalls from pipelines;
(i) the disposal at sea of wastes or other matter incidental to, or derived from the normal opera­ tions of vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea and their equip­ ment, other than wastes or other matter trans­ ported by or to vessels, aircraft, platforms or
• other man-made structures at sea, operating for the purpose of disposal of such matter or de­ rived from the treatment of such wastes or
other matter on such vessels, aircraft, platforms or structures;
(ii) placement of matter for a purpose, other than the mere disposal ■ thereof, provided that such
placement is not contrary to the aims of the
4. 'Vessels and aircraft" means waterborne or airborne
craft of any type whatsoever. This expression includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft whether self-propelled or not, and fixed or floating platforms; '
" Oil " means petroleum in any form including crude oil, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products;
6. "Harmful substance" means any hazardous, noxious, or other substance, which, if introduced into the sea, is liable to cause pollution ;
7. "Incident" means an event involving the actual or probable discharge into the sea of harmful substance, or effluents containing such a substance.
Article 3 * Fundamental principles and obligations , •
1. The Contracting Parties shall individually or jointly
relevant measures in order to prevent and abate pollu­ tion and to protect and enhance the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
(2) Die Vertragsparteien sorgen nach besten Kräften ours to ensure that the implementation of the present dafür, daß die Durchführung dieses Übereinkommens
2. The Contracting Parties shall use their best endeav­ Convention shall not cause an increase in the pollution
of sea areas outside the Baltic Sea Area.
1. The present Convention shall apply to the protec­ tion of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area,
ing their living resources and other forms of marine life.
2. Without prejudice to the sovereign rights in regard to their territorial sea, each Contracting Party shall im­ plement the provisions of the present Convention within its territorial sea through its national authorities.
3-. While the provisions of Ihe present Convention do
not apply to internal waters, which are under the sover­
undertake , without prejudice to their sovereign rights , to ensure that the purposes of the present Convention will be obtained in these waters.
4. The present Convention shall not apply to any warship, naval auxiliary, military aircraft or other ship and aircraft owned or operated by a State and used, for the time being, only on government non-commercial service .
However, each Contracting Party shall ensure, by the adoption of appropriate measures not impairing the oper­ ations or operational capabilities of such ships and air­ craft owned or operated by it, that such ships and air­ craft act in a manner consistent, so far as is reasonable and practicable, with the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties undertake to counteract the introduction, whether airborne, watciborne or otherwise, into the Baltic Sea Area of hazardous substances as specified in Annex I of the present Convention.
Principles and obligations concerning . land-based pollution
1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollu­ tion by noxious substances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention. To this end they shall , inter alia , as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines, standards or regulations concerning dis­ charges, environmental quality, and products containing such substances and materials and their use.
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be. introduced Into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit, which may be periodically reviewed, by the appropriate national au­ thority. i
4. The appropriate national authority will inform the Commission referred to in Article 12 of the present Con­ vention of the quantity, quality and way of discharge if it considers that significant quantities of substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention wee discharged.
5. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to establish and adopt common criteria for issuing permits for dis­ charges. ,
6. To control and minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea" Area by harmful substances the Contracting Parties shall, in addition to the provisions of Article 5 of the present Convention, aim at attaining the goals and applying the criteria enumerated in Annex III of the present Conven­ tion.
7. Tr the discharge from a watercourse, flowing through the territories of two or more Contracting Parties or forming a boundary between them, is liable to cause pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, the Contracting Parties concerned shall in com­ mon take appropriate measures in order to prevent and abate such pollution.
3. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to use best practicable means in order to minimize the airborne pol­ lution of the Baltic Sea Area by noxious substances.
Prevention of pollution from ships
1. In order to protect the Baltic Sea Area from pollu­ tion by deliberate, negligent or accidental release of oil, harmful substances other than oil, and by the discharge of sewage and garbage from ships, the Contracting Par­ ties shall take measures as set out in Annex IV of the present Convention.
2. The Contracting Parties shall develop and apply uniform requirements for the capacity and location of facilities for the reception of residues of oil, harmful- substances other th<fn oil, including sewage and garbage, taking into account inter alia the special needs of pas­ senger ships and combination carriers.
The Contracting Parties shall, in addition to imple­
with adequate reception facilities for wastes from ple­
Article 8 ■ Pleasure crail
Article 9 Prévention of dumping
1 . The Contracting Parties shall , subject to Paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article, prohibit dumping in the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Dumping of dredged spoils shall be subject to a prior special permit by the appropriate national authority in accordance with the provisions of Annex V- of the pres­ ent Convention. :
3. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure com­ pliance with the provisions of this Article by vessels and aircraft:
a) registered in its territory or flying its flag;
b) loading, within its territory or territorial sea, matter which is to be dumped; or
c) believed to be engaged in dumping within its ter­ ritorial sea.
4. The provisions of this Article shall not apply when the safety of human life or of a vessel or aircraft at sea is threatened by the complete destruction or total loss of the vessel or aircraft, or.in any case which constitutes a danger to human life, if dumping appears to be the only way of averting the threat and if there is every probabil­ ity that the damage consequent upon such dumping will be less than would otherwise occur. Such dumping shall be so conducted as to minimize the likelihood o. damage to human or marine life.
3. Dumping made under the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Article shall be reported and dealt with in ac­ cordance with Annex VI of the present Convention and shall also be reported forthwith to the Commission refer­ red to in Article 12 of the present Convention in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Regulation 4 of Annex V of the present Convention.
6. In case of dumping suspected to be in contravention of the provisions of this Article the Contracting Parties shall co-operate in investigating the matter in accordance with Regulation '2 of Annex IV of the present Conven­ tion.
Exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and Its subsoil
Each Contracting Party shall take all appropriate meas­ ures in order to prevent pollution of the marine en­ vironment of the Baltic Sea Area resulting from explora­ tion or exploitation of its part of the sea-bed and its subsoil or from any associated activities thereon. It shall also ensure thatradequate equipment is at hand to start an immediate abatement of pollution in that area.
The Contracting Parties shall take measures and co­ operate os set out in Annex VI of tlie present Conven­ tion in order to eliminate or minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea Area by oil or other harmful substances.
Institutional and organizational framework
t. The Baltic Marine Environment Protection Com­
mission , hereinafter referred to as " the Commission ", is
hereby established for the purposes of the present Con­ vention .
2. The chairmanship of the Commission shall be given tcr each Contracting Party in turn in alphabetical ortler of the names of the States in the English language.
The Chairman shall serve for a period of two years, and cannot during the period of his chairmanship serve as representative of his country.
Should the chairmanship fall vacant, the Contracting Party chairing the Commission shall nominate a suc­ cessor to remain in office until the term of chairmanship of that Contracting Party expires.
3. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at leasl once a year upon convocation by the Chairman. Upon the request of a Contracting Party, provided it is en­ dorsed by another Contracting Party, the Chafrman shall, as soon as possible, summon an extraordinary meeting at such time and place as the Chairman determines, how­ ever, not later than ninety days from the date of the sub­ mission of the request.
4. The first meeting of the Commission shall be called by the Depositary Government and shall take place within a period of ninety days from the date fol­ lowing the entry into force of the present Convention.
5. Each Contracting Party shall have one vote in the Commission. Unless otherwise provided under the pres­ ent Convention, the Commission shall take its decisions unanimously.
The duties oi the Commission
The duties of the Commission shall be:
To keep the implementation of the present Conven­ tion under continuous observation :
To make 'recommendations on measures relating to the purposes of the present Convention;
To keep under review the contents of the present c) Convention including its Annexes and to recommend
to the Contracting Parties such amendments to the present Convention including its Annexes as may be required including changes in the lists of substances
and materials as well as the adoption of new An­ nexes ;
To define pollution control criteria, objectives for the reduction of pollution, and objectives concerning meas­ ures, particularly according to Annex III of the pres­ ent Convention;
governmental bodies, taking into consideration Sub- Paragraph f) of this Article, additional measures to protect the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area and for this purpose:
 (i) to receive, process, summarize and disseminate from available sources relevant scientific, tech­
nological and statistical information; and
(ii) to promote scientific and technological research;
f) To seek, when appropriate, the services of competent regional and other international organizations to col­ laborate in scientific and technological research as well as other relevant activities pertinent to the ob­ jectives of the present Convention;
g) To assume such other functions as may be appro­ priate under the terms of the present Convention.
Administrative provisions for the Commission
1. The working language of the Commission shall be English .
2. The Commission shall adopt its Rules of Procedure.
3. The office of the Commission, hereafter referred to as the "Secretariat", shall be in Helsinki.
4..The Commission shall appoint an Executive Secre­ tary and make provisions for the appointment of such other personnel as may be necessary, and determine the duties, terms and conditions of the Executive Secretary.
5. The Executive Secretary shall be the chief adminis­ trative official of the Commission and shall perform the functions that are necessary for the administration of the present Convention, the work of the Commission and other tasks entrusted to the Executive Secretary by the Commission and its Rules of Procedure.
Financial provisions for the Commission
1. The Commission shall adopt its Financial RuUiS.
2. The Commission shall adopt an annual or biennial budget of proposed expenditures and budget estimates for the fiscal period following thereafter.
3. The total amount of the budget, including any sup­ plementary budget adopted by the Commission, shall be contributed by the Contracting Parties in equal parts, unless the Commission unanimously decides otherwise .
4. Each Contracting Party shall pay the expenses related to the participation in the Commission of its rep­ resentatives, experts and advisers.
Sclcutific and techuological co-operation
1. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other interna­ tional organizations , to co-operate in the fields of science , technology and other research, and to exchange data as well as other scientific information for the puiposes of the present Convention.
2. Without prejudice to Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Ar­ ticle 4 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties undertake directly, 'or when appropiiate through com­ petent regional or other international organizations, to promote studies , untertake , support or contribute to prog­ rammes aimed at developing -ways and means for the
 assessment of the nature and extent of pollution, path­ ways , exposures , risks and remedies in the BolUc Sea Area, and particularly to develop alternative methods of treatment, disposal and elimination of such matter and substances tlut arc likely to cause pollution of the ma­ rine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
3. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other inter­ national organizations , and , on the basis of the informa­ tion and (lata acquired pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, to co-operate in developing inter-com- parable observation methods, in performing baseline studies and in establishing complementary or joint prog­ rammes for monitoring.
4. The organization and scope of work connected with the implementation of tasks referred to in the preceding Paragraphs should primarily be outlined by-the Com­ mission.
Article. 17 Responsibility for damage
The Contracting Parties undertake, as soon as pos­ sible, jointly to develop and accept rules concerning responsibility for damage resulting from acts or omis­ sions in contravention of the present Convention, includ­ ing, inter alia, limits of responsibility, criteria and proce­ dures for the determination of liability and available remedies.
Article 18 Seulement of disputes
1. In case of a dispute between Contracting Parties as to the interpretation or application of the present Con­ vention, they should seek a solution by negotiation. If the Parties concerned cannot reach agreement they should seek the good offices of or jointly request the mediation by a third Contracting Party, a qualified international org? lization or a qualified person.
2. If the Parties concerned have not been able to re­
unable to agree on measures as described above, such tion tribunal, or to the International Court of Justice.
Article 19 Safeguard of certain freedoms
Nothing in the present Convention shall be construed as infringing upon the freedom of navigation, fishing, marine scientific research and other legitimate uses of the high seas, as well as upon the right of innocent pas­ sage through the territorial sea.
Article 20 Status of Annexes
The Annexes attached to the present Convention form an integral part of the Convention.
Relation to other Conventions
The provisions of the present Convention shall be wi'ho^.t prejudice to \hc rights and obligations of the
 Contracting Parties under treaties concluded previously
as well as under treaties which may be concluded in the . ."uture, furthering and developing the general principles of the Law of the Sea that the present Convention is based upon and in.particular provisions concerning the
prevention of pollution of the marine environment.
* Révision of the Convention
A conference for the purpose of a general revision of - Mit Zustimmung der Vertragsparteien oder auf Er­ the present Convention may be convened with the con­ suchen der Kommission kann eine Konferenz zur allge­ sent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the meinen Revision dieses Ubereinkommens einberufen Commission. werden.
Amendments to the Articles of the Convention
posed amendment shall be submitted to the Depositary Government and communicated by it to all Contracting Parties, which shall inform the Depositary Government of either their acceptance or rejection of the amendment as soon as possible after the receipt of the communica­ tion. "
The amendment shall enter into force ninety days after the Depositary Government has received notifications of acceptance of that amendment from all Contracting Par­ ties.
' 2. With the consent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission a conference may be con­ vened for the purpose of amending the present Conven­ tion.
Amendments to the Annexes and the adoption . of Annexes
1. Any amendment to the Annexes proposed by a Con­ tracting Party shall be communicated to the other Con­ tracting Parties by the Depositary Government and con­ sidered in the Commission. If adopted by the Commis­ sion, the amendment shall be communicated to the Con­ tracting Parties and recommended for acceptance.
2. Such amendment shall be deemed to have been ac­ cepted at the end of a period determined by the Com­ mission unless within that period anyone, of the Con­ tracting Parties has objected to the amendment. The ac­ cepted amendment shall enter into force on a date deter­ mined by the Commission.
The period determined by the Commission shall be pro­ longed for an additional period of six months and the date of entry into force of the amendment postponed accordingly, if, in exceptional cases, any Contracting Party before the expiring of the period determined by the Commission informs the Depositary Government, that , although it intends to accept the proposal , the con­ stitutional requirements for such an acceptance are not yet fulfilled in its State.
3. An Annex to the present Convention may be adopted in accordance with the provisions of this Ar­ ticle.
4. The Depositary Government shall inform all Con­ tracting Parties of any amendments or the adoption of a new Annex which enter into force under this Article and of the date on which such amendment or new An­ nex enters into forcC.
• 5. Any objection under this Article shall be made by notification in writing to the Depositary Government
 which shall notify all Contracting Parties and the Ex­ notifiziert allen Vertragsparteien und dem Exekuliv-
ecutive Sccielary of any such notification and the date of its receipt.
1. The provisions of the present Convention shall not be subject to reservations.
2. The provision of ParagrapK 1 of this Article does not prevent a Contracting Party from suspending for a period not exceeding one year the application of an Annex of the present Convention or part thereof or an amendment thereto after the Annex in question or the amendment thereto has entered into force.
3. If after the entry into force of the present Conven­ tion a Contracting Party invokes the provisions of Para­ graph 2 of this Article it shall inform the other Contract­ ing Parties, at the time of the adoption by the Commis­ sion of an amendment to an Annex - or a new Ahnex, of those provisions which will be suspended in accordance with Paragraph 2 of this Article. ■
Signature, raUfication, approvai, and accession
1. The present Convention shall be open for signature in Helsinki on 22 March 1974 by the Baltic Sea States participating in the Diplomatic Conference on the Protec­ tion of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, held in Helsinki from 18 to 22 March 1974. The present Convention shall be open for accession to any other State interested in fulfilling the aims and purposes of the present Convention, provided that this Sta^e is invited by all the Contracting Parties.
2. The present Convention shall be subject to ratifica­ tion or approval by the States which have signed it.
3. The instruments of ratification, approval, or acces­
sion shall be deposited with the Government of Finland,
which will perform the duties of the Depositary Govern­
Article 27 Entry into force
The present Convention shall enter into force two months after the deposit of the seventh instrument of ratification or approval.
Article 28 Withdrawal
1. At any timet after the expiry of five years from the
date of entry into force of the present Convention any
Contracting Party may, by giving written notification to
the Depositary Government, withdraw from the present jederzeit von dem Ubereinkommen zurücktreten. Der Convention . The withdrawal shall take effect for such
Contracting Party on the thirty-first day of December of the year which follows the year in which the Depositary Government was notified of the withdrawal.
2. In case of notification of withdrawal by a Contract­ considering the effect of the withdrawal.
The present Convention has been drawn up in a single copy in the English language. Official translations into
ish languages shall be prepared and deposited with the signed original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipoten­
DONE AT HELSINKI, this twenty-second day of March' . GESCHEHEN ZU HELSINKI am 22. März 1974 one thousand nine hundred and seventy-four.
 its derivatives DDE and DDD.
2. PCB's (polychlorinated biphenyls).
The protection of the Baltic Sea Area from pollution
by the substances listed below can involve the use of
appropriate technical means, prohibitions and regulations geeignete technische Maßnahmen, durch Verbote und of the transport, trade, handling, application, and final Vorschriften über Beförderung, Handel, Handhabung, An­
 Noxious Substances and Materials
The following substances and materials are listed for the purposes of Article 6 of the present Convention.
The list ist valid for substances and materials intro­ duced as waterborne into the marine environment. The
3. Phenols and their derivatives.
4. Phthalic acid and its derivatives.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and their deriva­ tives.
Persistent toxic organosilicic compounds.
Persistent pesticides, including organophosphoric and organostannic pesticides, herbicides, slimicides and chemicals used for the preservation of wood, timber, wood pulp, cellulose, paper, hides and"textiles, hot covered by the provisions of Annex I of the present' Convention.
Acids , alkalis and surface concentrations or big quantities.
Oil and wastes of petrochemical and other industries containing lipid-soluble substances .
Substances having adverse effects an the taste and/ or smell of products for .human consumption from the sea, or effects on taste, smell, colour, transparency or other characteristics of the water seriously reduc­ ing its amenity values.
14. Materials and substances which may float, remain in suspension'or sink, aud which may seriously inter­ fere with any legitimate use of the sea.
15. Lignin substances contained in industrial waste wat­ ers.
10. The chelators EDTA (ethylenedinitrilotetraacetic acid
or ethylencdiamineletvaacetic acid) and DTPA (die­ thylenetriaminopentaacetic acid).
practicable means to prevent harmful substances and materials from being introduced as airborne into the Baltic Sea Area.
1. Mercury, cadmium, and their compounds.
2. Antimony, aTsenic, beryllium, chromium, copper, lead, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, tin, vanadium, zinc, and their compounds, as well as elemental phos­ phorus.
 Goals, Criteria and Measures concerning the Prevention of Land-Based Pollution
In accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties shall endeav­ our to attain Die goals and apply the criteria . and measures enumerated in this Annex in order to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area. .
1. Municipal sewage shall be treated in an appropriate way so that the amount of organic matter does not cause harmful changes in the oxygen content of the Baltic Sea Area and the amount of nutrients does not cause harmful eutrophication of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Municipal sewage shall also be treated in an ap­ propriate. way to ensure-that the hygienic quality, and in particular epidemiological and toxicological.safety, of the receiving sea area is maintained at a level which does not cause harm to human health, and in a way that under the given composition of the sewage no significant amount of such harmful substances as are listed in An­ nexes I and II of the present Convention is formed.
3. The polluting load of industrial wastes shall be minimized in an appropriate way in order to Teduce the amount of harmful substances, organic matter and nutrients.
5. The discharge of cooling water from nuclear power plants or other kinds of industries using large amounts of water shall be effected in a way which minimizes the pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
4. The means referred to in Paragraph 3 of this Annex
shall in particular include minimization of production
and improvement of qualifications for water treatment.
In the treatment of waste water mechanical, chemidal,
biological and other measures, according to the quality
of the waste water, and as required to maintain or im­
prove the quality of the recipient water, shall be applied.
6. The Commission will define pollution control criteria, objectives for reduction of pollution and objectives con­
 Prevention of Pollution from Ships Regulation 1
The Contracting Parties shall as appropriate co-operate and assist each other in initiating action by the Inter- Governmental Maritime Consultative Orgamzation to develop :
a) international rules for navigation of deep draught ships in narrow and shallow waters in international waters of the Baltic Sea Area and in the entrances
to the Baltic Sea for the prevention of collisions, standings and groundings;
b) an international radio reporting system for large ships en route within the Baltic Sea Area as well as for
.'ships carrying a significant amount of a harmful substance .
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, as appropriate assist each other in investigating viola­ tions of the existing legislation on antipollution meas­ ures, which have occurred or are suspected to have occurred within the Baltic Sea Area. This assistance may include but is not limited to inspection by the competent authorities of oil record books, cargo record books, log books and engine log books and taking oil samples for analytical identification purposes and in respect of the system of tagging oil residues.
For the purposes of this Annex :
1. "Ship" means a vessel of any type whatsoever operat­ ing in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag of: any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms' engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal State concerned.
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances , means any release howsoever caused from a ship and includes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pumping, emitting or emptying ;
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping-of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration, -exploitation and asso-
 cialed off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral resources; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
4. "Nearest land". The term 'from the nearest land*
means from the baseline from which the territorial sea
of the territory in question is established in accord­ ance with international law.
5. The term "jurisdiction" shall be interpreted in accord­ ance with international law in force at the time of application or interpretation of this Annex.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1 Januafy 1977 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on methods /or the prevention of pollution by oil -from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
3. "Oil fuel" means any oil used as fuel in connection with the propulsion and auxiliary machinery of the ship in which such oil is carried.
"Oil" means petroleum in any form including crude oil , . fuel oil , sludge , oil refuse and refined products (other than petrochemicals which are subject to the provisions of Regulation 5 of this Annex) and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing" includes the
' "Oily mixture" means a mixture with any oil content.
substances listed in Appendix I to this Annex.
primarily to carry oil in bulk in its cargo spaces and includes combination carriers and .any "chemical tanker" as defined in Regulation 5 of this Annex when it is carrying a cargo or part cargo of oil in bulk.
5. "Combination carrier" means a ship designed to carry either oil or solid cargoes in bulk.
6. "Clean ballast" means the ballast in a tank which 6. Der Ausdruck .sauberer Ballast* bezeichnet den
since oil was last carried therein has been so cleaned that effluent therefrom if it were discharged from a
ship which is stationary into clean calm water on a clear day would not produce visible traces of oil on the surface of the water or on adjoining shore lines or cause a sludge or emulsion . to be deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining shore lines. If the ballast is discharged through an oil dischaige monitoring and control system approved by the Administration, evidence based on sudi a system to the effect that the oil content of the effluent did not exceed 15 parts per million shall be determinative that the bnlliftt was clean, notwithstanding the presence of visible traces.
" Segregated ballast " means the ballast water intro­ duced into a tank which is completely separated from the, cargo oil and oil fuel system and which is permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious substances as variously defined in the Regula­ tions of this Annex.
B Control of Discharge of Oil
1. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures from any oil tanker and any ship of 400 tons gross tonnage and above other than an oil tanker shall be prohibited, while in the Baltic Sea Area;
b) such ships while in the Baltic Sea Area shall retain on board all oil drainage and sludge, dirty ballast and tank washing waters and discharge them only to reception facilities.
2. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, any discharge into the sea of oiL* or oily mixtures from a ship of less than 400 tons gross tonnage, other than an oil tanker, shall be prohibited while in the Baltic Sea Area, except when the oil content of the effluent without dilution does not exceed 15 parts per million or alternatively when all of the following condi­ tions are satisfied :
(i) the ship is proceeding en route ;
(ii) the oil content of the effluent is less than 100 parts per million; and
(iii) the discharge is made as far as practicable from the land, but in no case less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land ; *
b) no discharge into the sea shall contain chemicals or other substances in quantities or concentrations which are hazardous to the marine environment or chemicals
or other substances introduced for the purpose of circum­
c) the oil residues which cannot be discharged into the sea in compliance with Sub-Paragraph 2a) of this Paragraph shall be retained on board or discharged to reception facilities.
3. The provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to the discharge of clean or segregated ballast.
4. Whenever visible traces of oil are observedon or below the surface of the water in the immediate vicinity of a ship or its wake, the Contracting Parties should, to the extent they are reasonably able to do so, promptly investigate the facts bearing on the issue of whether there has been. a. violation of the provisions of this Regulation. The investigation should include, in particu­ lar, the wind and sea conditions, the track and speed of the ship, other possible sources of the visible traces in the vicinity, and any relevant oil discharge records.
Paragraph B of this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a
' ship or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge into the sea of oil or oily mixtures resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment:
 (j) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted "either with intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or ;
c) the discharge into the--sea of substances containing oil, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution in­ cidents in order to minimize the damage from pollu­ tion. Any such discharge shall be subject to the approval of any Contracting Party in whose jurisdic­ tion it is contemplated the discharge will occur.
ft Special Requirements for Drilling Rigs andotherPlatfo.rms
Fixed and floating drilling rigs when engaged in the exploration , exploitation and associated offshore process­ ing of sea-bed mineral resources and other platforms shall "comply with the requirements of this Regulation applicable to ships of 400 tons gross tonnage and above Other than oil tankers, except that:
a) they shall keep a record of all operations involving oil or oily mixture discharges, in a form approved by the Administration; and
b) subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, the discharge into the serf of oil or oily mixtures shall be prohibited except 'when the oil content of the discharge without dilution does not exceed 15 parts per million.
E Reception Facilities of the Baltic Sea Area
The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure that not later than 1 January 1977 all oil loading terminals and repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area are provided with facilities adequate for the reception and treatment of all the dirty ballast and tank washing waters from , oil tankers. In addition all ports, of the area shall be provided with adequate reception facilities for other residues and oily mixtures from all ships. Such facilities shall have adequate capacity to meet the needs of the ships using them without causing undue delay.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible, but
not later than 1 .January 1977 or at a date not later
than one year after the date of the entry into force of
the present Convention, whichever occurs later, decide
upon a date from which the provisions of Paragraphs A
to D of this Regulation on the discharge of noxious ger Stoffe als Massengut aus Schiffen, die im Ostsee­ liquid substances in bulk from ships while operating in gebiet betrieben werden, Anwendung finden. -
the Baltic Sea Area shall apply.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
adapted primarily to ratry a cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk and includes an "oil tanker* as
 ■: defined in Regulation 4 of Ihis Annex when carrying a cargo or part cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk.
2. 'Clean ballast" means ballast carried in a tank which, since it was last used to carry a cargo containing a substance in Category A, B, C, or D has been thor­ oughly cleaned and the residues resulting therefrom have been discharged and the tank emptied in accord­ ance with the appropriate requirements of this Regula­ tion.
3. "Segregated ballast" means ballast -water introduced into a tank permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious liquid substances as variously defined in the Regulations of this Annex, and which is completely separated from the cargo and oil fuel system.
4. "Liquid substances" are those having a Vapour pres­ sure not exceeding 2.8 kp / cm2 at a temperature of 37.8 °C. '
designated in Appendix III to this Annex or provi­ sionally ' assessed under the provisions of Sub-Para­ graph 4 of Paragraph B of this Regulation as falling into Category A, B, C, or D:
B Categorization and Listing of Noxious Liquid Substances
1. For the purposes of this Regulation noxious liquid substances shall be divided into four categories as fol­ lows :
a) Category A – noxious liquid substances .which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a major hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause serious harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of stringent anti-pollution measures ;
b) Category B – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal- Jasting operations would present a hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause harm to amenities or other legitimate' uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of special anti-pollu­ tion measures;
c) Category C – noxious liquid substances which if c) Gruppe C y– schädliche flüssige Stoffe, die, wenn sie
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operation's would present a minor hazard to either marine, resources or human health or cause
minor harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore require special operational conditions :
d) Category D – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a recognizable hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause minimal harm to amenities or other legiti­
mate uses of the sea . and therefore require attention in operational conditions.
 2. Guidelines for use in the categorization of noxious liquid substances are given in Appendix II to this Annex.
3. The list of noxious liquid substances carried in bulk and presently categorized which are subject to the provi­ sions of this Regulation is set out in Appendix III to this Annex.
4. Where it is proposed to carry a liquid substance in bulk which has not been categorized under Sub-Para­ graph 1 of this Paragraph or 'evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph C of this Regulation the Contracting Parties involved in the proposed operation shall establish and agree on a provisional assessment for the proposed operation on the basis of the guidelines referred to in Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph. Until full agreement between the Governments involved has been reached, the substance shall be carried under the most severe conditions proposed.
1. The substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex
have been evaluated and found to fall outside the Categories A, B, C, and D, as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph B of this Regulation because they are presently considered to present no barm to human health, marine resources, amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea, when discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or deballasting operations.
2. The discharge of bilge or ballast water or other residues or mixtures containing only substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex shall not be subject to any requirement of this Regulation.
3. The discharge into the sea of cleaft ballast or ment of this Regulation,
D Discharge of Noxious Liquid Substances
Subject to the provisions of Paragraph E of this Regu­ lation :
1. The discharge into the sea of substances in Category A as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of Para­ graph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited. If tanks containing such substances or mixtures are to be washed, the resulting residues shall be discharged to a reception facility which the Contract­ ing Parties shall provide in accordance with Paragraph H of this Regulation, until the concentration of the sub­ stance in the effluent to such facility is at or below the residual concehtfation prescribed for that substance in column IV of Appendix III to this Annex and until the tank is empty. Provided that the residue then remaining in the tank is subsequently diluted by the addition of a volume of water of not less than 5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, it may be discharged into the sea when all the following conditions are also satisfied:
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a -speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled .ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled ;
b) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account the location of the seawater intakes; and •
c) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than
12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not !-js3 than 25 metres.
graph B of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank wa.hings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited except when all the following condi­ tions are satisfied:
a) the tank has been washed after unloading with a volume of water of not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, and the resulting residues have been discharged to a reception facility until the tank is empty;
b) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of. ships which are not self- propelled;
washings are approved by the Administration and . shall ensure that the concentration and rate of dis­
charge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the wake astern of the ship .does not exceed 1 part per million;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, rtaking into account the location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not less than 25 metres.
3. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate­
gory C as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Paragraph B
of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as
such or ballast watei, tank washings, or other residues Ballastwasser, Tankwaschwasser oder sonstigen Rück­
or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro­ hibited except when all the following conditions are satisfied : . *,
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are no', self- - propelled;
approved by the Administration and shall er.sure that the concentration and rate of discharge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the
wake astern of the ship does not exceed 1 part per million ;
the maximum quantity of cargo discharged from each tank and its associated piping system does not exceed the maximum quantity approved in accordance with . the procedures referred to in Sub-Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph which shall in no case exceed the greater of 1 cubic metre or 1 / 3.000 of the tank capac­ ity in cubic metres ;
the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account thfe location of the seawater intakes; and
the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not less than 25 metres.
4. The discharge inlo the sea of substances in Cate- gory D as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Paragraph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro- hibited except when all the following conditions are satisfied: •
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case- of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which arc not self- propelled ; •
12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
5. Ventilation procedures approved by the Administra­ tion may be used to remove cargo residues from a tank. If subsequent washing of the tank is necessary, the discharge into the sea of the resulting tank washings shall be made in accordance with Sub-Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, or 4 of this Paragraph, whichever is applicable.
6. The discharge into the sea of substances which have not been categorized, provisionally assessed, or evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Para­ graph C of this Regulation, or of ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited.
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall not apply to:
the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances resulting from
. damage to a ship or its equipment:
(i) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge ; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted either with intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result ; or
c) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution incidents in order to minimize the damage from pollution. Any such dis­ charge shall be subject to the approval of any Con­ tracting Party in whose jurisdiction it is contemplated
. the discharge will occur.
1. The Contracting Parties shall appoint or authorize surveyors for the purpose of implementing this Para­ graph .
2. a) If a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pump­
ing or transfer operation carried out in connection with
that lank shall also be entered in the' Cargo Record
3. If Ilie tank is to be washed:
the effluent from the tank washing operation shall be discharged from the ship to a recepfion facility at least until the concentration of the substance in the
discharge, as indicated by analyses of samples of the effluent taken by the surveyor, has fallen to the residual concentration specified for th'at substance In Appendix III to II. .s Annex. Whc.i the required re-
 sidual concentration has been achieved , remaining ' tank washings shall continue to be discharged to the reception facility until the tank is empty. Appropriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo
Record Book and certified by the surveyor; and
b) after diluting the residue then remaining in the tank with at least 5 per cent of the tank capacity of water, this mixture may be discharged into the sea in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Sub-Paragraphs 1 a),
~b), and c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. Ap­ propriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
4. Where the Government of the receiving Party is
satisfied that it is impracticable to measure the concen­
tration of the substance in the effluent without causing
graph 3 a) of this Paragraph provided that:
a) a precleaning procedure for that tank and that sub­ stance is approved by the Administration and that Party is satisfied that such procedure will fulfil the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph D of this Regulation with respect to the attainment of the prescribed residual concentrations;
b) a surveyor duly authorized by that Party shall certify in "the Cargo Record Book that :
(i) the tank, its pump and piping system have been emptied, and that the quantity of cargo remaining in the tank is at or below the quantity on which the approved precleaning procedure referred to in Sub-Paragraph (ii) of this Sub-Paragraph has been based ;
(ii) precleaning has been carried out in accordance with the precleaning procedure approved by the Administration for that tank and that substance; and
(iii) the tank washings resulting from such preclean­ ing have been discharged to a reception facility and the tank is empty;
c) the discharge into the sea of any remaining residues shall. be in accordance with the provisions of Sub- Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may-..be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall , with respect to a Category B substance , enstrre compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pumping or transfer operation carried out in connection with that tank shall also be entered in the Cargo Record Book ;
c) if the tank is to be washed, the effluent from the c) soll der Tank ausgewaschen werden, so ist der beim
tank washing operation, which shall contain a volume of water not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility until the tank, its pump and piping system are empty. An appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
d) if the tank is to bo further cleaned and -emptied at sea, the Master shall: .
 (i) ensure that the approved procedures referred to , in Sub-Paragraph 2 cl of Paragraph D of this Regu­ lation are complied with and that the appropriate entries are made in the Cargo Record Book.; and
(ii) ensure that any discharge into the sea. is made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Para­ graph 2 of Paragraph D of this Regulation and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book ;
e) if after unloading a Category B substance, any res­ idues of tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the Baltic Sea Area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
6. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Category C substance,,ensure compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not . cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
b) .if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
. (ii) the quantity of substance remaining in the tank shall not exceed the maximum quantity which may be discharged into the sea for that sub­ stance under Sub-Paragraph 3 c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. An appropriate efltry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; !
(iii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea the approved procedures shall be complied with, and the necessary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An ap­ propriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(iv) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(v) any subsequent discharge into tJbe sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 3 of "Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
c) if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
(i) the tank« washings shall be discharged to a recep­
tion facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location and disposition of the tank washings;
d) if after unloading a Category C substance within the Baltic Sea Area, any residues or tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book,
7. The Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Cate­ gory D substance, ensure compliance with the following:
 a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
(ii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea, the neces­ sary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An appro­ priate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
(iii) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(iv) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with ' the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 4 of "Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
- cleaned , an appropriate entry shall Cargo Record Book;
if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
in the
–(i) the tank washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion- facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location
- and disposition of the tank washings.
Discharge irom a Slop Tank
8. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank,
including those from pump room bilges, which contain a
Category A or a Category B substance, shall be dis­
charged to a reception facility in accordance with the
this Regulation, whichever is applicable. An appropriate- entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
9. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank, including those from pump room bilges, which contain a Category C substance in excess of the aggregate of the
maximum quantities specified in Sub-Paragraph 3c) of
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall be discharged to a
the Cargo Record Book. . : .
1. Every ship to which this Regulation applies shall be provided with a Cargo Record Book, whether as part of the ship's official log book or otherwise, in the form specified in Appendix V to this Annex.
2. The Cargo Record Book shall be completed, on a tank-to-tank basis, whenever any of the following opera­ tions with respect to a noxious liquid substance takes place in the ship :
loading of cargo ; unloading of cargo ; transfer of cargo ;
(iv) transfer of cargo, cargo residues or mixtures con­ taining cargo to a slop tank ;
(v) cleaning of cargo tanks ; (vi) transfer from slop tanks; (vii ) ballasting of cargo tanks ;
(viii ) transfer of dirty ballast water ;
(ix) discharge into the sea in accordance with Para­ graph D of this Regulation.
 • 3. In the event of any discharge of the kind referred to in Annex VI of the present Convention and Para­ graph E of this Regulation of any noxious liquid sub­ stance or mixture containing such substance, whether intentional or accidental, an entry shall be made in tho Cargo Record Book stating the circumstances of,- and the reason for, the discharge.
4. When a surveyor appointed or outhorized' by a Contracting Party to supervise any operations under this Regulation has inspected a ship, then that surveyor shall make an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Each operation referred to in Sub-Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Paragraph shall be fully recorded without delay in the Cargo Record Book so that all the entries in the Book appropriate to that operation are completed. Each entry shall be signed by the officer or officers in charge of the operation concerned and , when the ship is manned , each page shall be signed by the Master of 'the ship. The entries in the Cargo Record Book shall be in an official language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly , and , except when the ship is engaged in domestic voyages , in English or French . The entries in an official national language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly shall prevail in case of a dispute or discrepancy.
6. The Cargo Record Book shall be kept in such a place as to be readily available for inspection and, except in the case of unmanned ships under tow, shall be kept on board the ship. It shall be retained for a period of two years after the last entry has been made.
7. The competent authority of a Contracting Party may
inspect the Cargo Record Book on board any ship to «kann das Ladungstagebuch an Bord jedes Schiffes, für
which this Regulation applies while the ship is in its port, and may make a copy of any entry in that Book and may require the Master of the ship to certify that the copy is a true copy of such entry. Any copy so made which has been certified by the Master of the ship as a true copy of an entry in the ship's Cargo Record Book shall be made admissible in any judicial proceedings as evidence of the facts stated in the entry. The inspection of a Cargo Record Book and the taking of a certified copy by the competent authority under this Paragraph shall be performed as expeditiously as possible without causing the ship to be unduly delayed.
1. The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure "the provision of reception facilities according to the needs of ships using their ports, terminals or repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area a$ follows:
a) cargo loading and unloading ports and terminals shall have facilities adequate for reception without undue delay to ships of such residues and mixtures con­ taining noxious liquid substances as would remain for disposal from ships carrying them as a conse­ quence of the application of this Regulation ; and
b) »hip repair ports undertaking repairs to chemical tan­ kers shall have facilities adequate for the reception of residues and mixtures containing noxious liquid substances.
2. Each Contracting Party shall determine the types of facilities provided fen the purpose of Sub-Paragraph I of this Paragraph at its cargo loading and unloading
ports, terminals and ship repair ports of the Baltic Sea' Αι·«ά .
Harmful substances In packaged forms
A. The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible apply suitable uniform rules for the carriage of harmful substances in packaged forms or in freight containers, portable tanks or road and rail tank wagons.
B. With respect to certain harmful substances, as may be designated by the Commission, the Master or owner of the ship or his representative shall notify the appro­ priate port authority of the intent to load or unload such substances at least 24 hours prior to such action.
C. A report of an incident involving harmful sub­ stances shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex VI of the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on discharge of sewage ships while operating in the Baltic Sea rArea.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
1. "New ship* means a ship:
a) for which the building
absence of a building
is laid, or which is at
tion, on or after the date of entry into force of the present Convention; or
b) the delivery of which is three years or more after the date of entry into force of the present Conven­ tion.
2. "Existing ship" means a ship which is not a new ship.
a) drainage and other wastes from any form of toilets, urinals, and WC scuppers;
b) drainage from medical premises (dispensary, sick bay, etc.) via wash basins, wash tubs and scuppers located in such premises;
c) drainage from spaces containing living animals; or
d) other waste waters when mixed with the drainages, defined above.
4. "Holding tank" means a tank used for the collection and storage of sewage.
1. The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to:
a) new ships certified to carry more than 100 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1977;
b) existing ships certified to carry more than 400 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1978; and
contract is
contract, the keel of which a similar stage of construc­
and (iii), from dates decided by the Contracting Par­ ties on recommendation by the Commission:
(i) ships of 200 tons gross tonnage and above;
placed ,
 (ii) ships of less' than 200 Ions gross tonnage which arc certified to carry more than 10 persons !
(iii) ships which do not have a measured gross ton­ nage and arc certified to carry more than 10 per­ sons.
In the case of new such ships the date shall be not later than 1 January 1979. In the case of existing such ships the date shall be not later than ten yejvs after the date decided for new ships.
2. A Contracting Party may, if it is satisfied that the application of the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of this Paragraph with respect to a certain ship would necessi­ tate constructional alterations which would be unreason­ able, exempt the ship from the application until a date not later than ten years after the date of entry into force of the present Convention.
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph D of this Regulation, the discharge of sewage into the sea is pro­ hibited, except when:
a) the ship is discharging comminuted and disinfected sewage using a system approved by the Administra­ tion at a distance of more than 4 nautical miles from the nearest land, or sewage which is not comminuted or disinfected at a distance of more than 12 nautical
miles from the nearest land, provided that in any case the sewage that has been stored in holding tanks shall not be discharged instantaneously but at a moderate rate when the ship is en route and proceeding at not less than 4 knots : or
b) the ship has in operation a sewage treatment plant which has been approved by the Administration, and
(i) the test results of the plant are laid down in a document carried by the ship;
(ii) additionally, the effluent shall not produce visible floating solids in, nor cause discolouration of the surrounding water; or
c) the ship is situated in the waters under the jurisdic­ c) daß das Schiff sich in Gewässern im Hoheitsbereich
tion of a State and is discharging sewage in accord­ ance with such less stringent requirements as may be imposed by 'such State.
2. When the sewage is mixed with wastes of waste water having different discharge requirements, the.more stringent requirements shall apply.
Paragraph C of.this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the discharge of sewage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea,- or
b) the discharge of sewage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment if all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the discharge.
1. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the provision of facilities at its ports and terminals of Hie
 causing' undue delay to ships, adequate to meet the needs of the ships using them .
2. To enable pipes of reception facilities to be con­ nected with the ship's discharge pipeline, both lines shall be fitted with a standard discharge connection in accord­ ance with the following table :
Standard Dimensions of Flanges for Discharge Connections
Slo.ts in flange
Flange thickness
Bolts and nuts: quantity and diameter
According to pipe outside diameter
equidistantly placed on a bolt circle of the above
diameter, slotted to the flange periphery. The slot width to be 18 mm
4, each of 16 mm in diam­ eter and of suitable length
The flange is designed to accept pipes up to a maxi­ mum internal diameter of 100 mm and shall be of steel or oilier equivalent material having a flat face. This flange, together with a suitable gasket, shall be suitable for a service pressure of 6 kg/cm!.
For ships having a moulded depth of 5 metres and less, the inner diameter of the discharge connection may be 38 millimetres.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1*January 1976 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on the disposal of garbage from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
"Gnrbage* means> .i" kinds of victual, domeslic and operational waste excluding fresh fish and parts thereof, gencraled during the normal Operation of the ship and liable to be disposed of continuously or periodically ex- cept those substancc*?\vhich are defined or listed in other Regulalions of Ulis Annex.
 B Disposal of Garbage
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs C and D of (his Regulation:
a) disposal into the sea of the following is prohibited:
(i) all plastics, including but not limited to synthetic ropes, synthetic fishing nets and plastic garbage bags; and
(ii) all other garbage, including paper products, rags, glass, metal, bottles, crockery, dunnage, lining and packing materials;
b) disposal into the sea of food wastes shall be made as far as practicable from land, but in any case not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
2. When the garbage is mixed with other discharges having different disposal or discharge requirements the more stringent requirements shall apply.
C Special Requirement's for Fixed and Floating Platforms r '
1. Subject to the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph, .the disposal of any materials regulated by this Regulation is prohibited from fixed or floating plat­ forms . engaged in the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral re­ sources, and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms.
2. The disposal into the sea of food wastes may be permitted when they have passed through a comminuter or grinder from such fixed or floating platforms' located more than 12 nautical miles from land and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms. Such comminuted or ground food wastes shall be capable of passing through a screen with openings no greater than 25 millimetres.
Paragraphs B and C of this Regulation shall not apply to :
a) the disposal of garbage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or
b) the escape of garbage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment provided all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage, for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the escape; Or ■
c) the accidental loss of synthetic fishing nets or syn­ thetic material incidental to the repair of such nets, provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken to prevent such loss.
Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the pro­ vision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the Baltic Sea Area for the reception of garbage, without causing undue delay to ships, and according to the needs of the ships using them.
Aromatic Oil (excluding vegetable oil) Lubricating Oils and Blending
Appendix I List of Oils *)
•) The list *>f ofls shall not necessarily be considered as comprehensive.*
Guidelines for the Categorization of Noxious Liquid Substances
Substances which are bioaccumulated and liable to
which are highly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 4, defined by a TLm less than 1 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are moderately toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 or more, but less than 10 ppm) when particular weight is given to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics Of the substance .
Substances which arc 'bioaccumulated with a short
retention of the order of one week or less; or which are liable to produce tainting of the -sea food ; or which are moderately toxic to acquatic life (as expressed by a Haz­ ard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 ppm cr more, but less than 10 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of 10 ppm or more, but less than 100 ppm) when particular weight is given to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics of the substance.
Substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as
expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of sind (ausgedrückt durch Gefahrenstufe 2, bezeichnet 10 or more, but less than 100 ppm); and additionally cer­ durch eine TLm von 10 oder mehr, aber weniger als tain substances which are practically non-toxic to aquatic 100 ppm) sowie bestimmte Stoffe, die praktisch ungiftig life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a für Wasserpflanzen und -tiere sind (ausgedrückt durch TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than 1.000 ppm) when Gefahrenstufe 1, bezeichnet durch eine TLm von . 100 particular weight is given to additional factors in the oder mehr, aber weniger als 1 000 ppm), 1wenn zusätz­ hazard profile or to special characteristics of the sub­ lichen Faktoren im Gefahrenprofil oder besonderen stance.
Substances which are practically non-tpxic to aquatic
life , (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1 , defined by a
TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than - 1.000 ppm); or
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD); or highly hazardous to human health, with an LDjo of less than 5 mg/kg; or produce moderate reduction of amenities because of persistency, smell or poisonous or irritant characteristics, possibly interfering with use of beaches; or moderately hazardous to human health, with an LDJO of 5 mg/kg or more, but loss than 50 mg/kg and produce slight reduc­ tion of amenities.
Other Liquid Substances (for the purposes of Paragraph C of Regulation 5)
Substances other than those categorized in Cate­ gories A, B, C, and D above.
(Paragraph D (1) of
the Baltic Sea Area
Acetic anhydride .
Allyl alcohol . .
Aminoethylethanolamine (Hydroxyethyl-ethy-
Calcium hydroxide (solution) Camphor oil
List of Noxious Liquid Substances carried in Bulk
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
•) Asterisk indicates that tho substance has been provisionally included in this list arH that further data are necessary in order to complete the evaluation ol U$ enviioonicntdl hazards, particularly in relation to living resources.
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
Caustic potash (Potassium hydroxide)
para-Cymene (Isopropyltoluene) *) Decahydronaphthalene
(D.D. Soil fumigant) Diethylamine
(2-Dimethylaminoethanol) *) Dimelhylformamide
I II III IV Within
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally included in this list and that further data ore necessary in order to compete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in relation to itving resources.
the Baltic Sea Area
rleptanoic acid *) Hexamethylenediamine *)
Hydrofluoric acid (40 ®/o aqueous) Hydrogen peroxide (greater than 60%) Isobutyl acrylate
Isopropyl cyclohexane Isoprene
Methyl acrylate Methylamyl alcohol Methylene chloride 2-Methyl-5-Ethylpyridine *) Methyl methacrylate 2-Mcthypentene *)
•) Asterisk iodlcates that the substance has been provisionally Included In this list and that further dota are necessary In order to complete
the evaluation of its environmental hazards, paiticulaily in relation to living resour«.^s. 36
Pollution Category for oper- ■
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
I II III IV VVithin
the Baltic Sea Area
Phthalic Anhydride (molten) beta-Propiolactone *) Propionaldchyde
Propionic anhydride
n-Propylamine
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
I II III IV Within
•) Asterisk Jndicntes (hat tho substance has been provisionally Included in thts list and thai further data am necessity in order to coinp.cte the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in rclatfon to living resources.
the Baltic Sea Area
Triethanolamine D
Tritolyl phosphate (Tricresyl phosphate) *) Turpentine (wood)
Xylenes (mixed isomers)
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
•) Asterisk indicates that the substance has been provisionally included in this li«t and that further data are necessary ih order to complete the evaluation ol its environmental hazards, particularly in relation to living resources.
1 II III IV Within
the Baltic Sen Area
1005 iso-Amylacetat 1104 n-Amylacetat ; 1104
n-Butylacctat sec-Butylacetat n-Butylacrylat
Chlorhydrine (roh) *) Chloropren •) Chlorsulfonsaure
para-Cymol (Isopropyltoluol) *) Decahydronaphthalin
Dibenzylather *)
Diàthylâther
Diäthylentriamin *) Diäthylenglycol-monoäthyläther
Dimethylathanolamin (2-Dimethylaminoâthanoi) *) Dimethylformamid
Athylendibromid Athylendichlorid Äthylenglycol-monoäthyläther (Methylkolloidlôsung) 2-Athylhexylacrylat *) 2-Athylhexylalkohol Athvllactal *)
Isophoron Isopropylamin Isopropylcyclohexan Isopren
Monoäthanolamin D
Triathanolamin
Tritolylphosphat *) 1
Decyl octyl alcohol Dibutyl ether Diethanolamine Diethylene glycol Dipentene
Heptene (mixed isomers)
List of other Liquid Substances
carried in Bulk
Cargo Record Books lor Ships carrying Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk
Name of ship
Cargo carrying capacity of each tank in cubic metres
Voyage from
a) ' Loading of cargo
1. Date and place of loading ,
2. Name and category of cargo(es) loaded
3. Identity of tank(s) loaded
b) Transfer of cargo
4. Date of transfer
5. Identity of tank(s) (i) From (ii) To
7. If not, quantity remaining
c) Unloading of cargo
8. Date and place of unloading 9. Identity of tank(s) unloaded
11. If not, quantity remaining in tank(s)
12. Is (are) tank(s) to be cleaned? 13. Amount transferred to slop tank 14. Identity of slop tank -
d) Ballasting of cargo tanks
• 15. Identity of tank(s) ballasted
16. Date and position of ship at start oj ballasting
e) Clearing of cargo tanks Category A substances
17. Identity of tank(s) cleaned
18. Date and location of cleaning
19. Method(s) of cleaning
20. Location of reception facility used
21. Concentration of effluent when discharge to recep­ tion facility stopped
22. Quantity remaining in tank
23. Procedure and amount of water introduced into tank in final cleaning
24. Location, date of discharge into the sea
25. Procedure andaequipment used in discharge into the sea
Signature of Master 46
 Category B, C, and D substances
26. Washing procedure used
27. Quantity of water used
28. Dale, location of discharge into the sea
29. Procedure and equipment used in discharge into the sea
f) Transfer of dirty ballast water
30. Identity of tank(s)
31. Date and position of ship at start of discharge into the sea
34. Quantity discharged into the sea
32. Date and position into the sea
of . ship
35. Quantity of polluted water transferred to slop tank(s) (identify slop'tanks(s))
36. Date and port of discharge'to reception facilities (if applicable)
g) Transfer from slop tank/disposal of residue
37. Identity of slop tank(s)
38. Quantity disposed from each tank 39. Method of disposal of residue :
(b) Mixed with cargo
(c) Transferred to another (other) tank(s) (identify
(d) Other method
40. Date and port of disposal of residue h) Accidental or other exceptional discharge
Date and lime of occurrence
Place or position of ship at time of occurrence
Approximate quantity, name and category of substance
Circumstanccs of discharge or escape and general remarks.
Signature of Master
 a) issue special permits provided for in Regulation 1 of this Annex;
b) keep records of the nature and quantities of matter permitted to be dumped and the location, time and method of dumping;
c) collect available information concerning the nature and quantities of matter that has been dumped in the Baltic Sea Area recently and up to the coming into force of the present Convention, provided that the
■ dumped matter in question could be liable to cont­ aminate water or organisms in the Baltic: Sea Area, to be caught by fishing equipment, or otherwise to give rise to harm , and the location , time and method of such dumping. • . . •
2. The appropriate national authority shall issue special permits in accordance with Regulation 1 of this Annex in respect of matter intended for dumping in the Baltic Sea Area:' *
a) loaded in its territory ;
Exceptions from the General Prohibition of Dumping of Waste and other Matter in the Baltic Sea Area
In accordance with Paragraph 2 of Article D of the present Convention the prohibition of dumping shall not apply lo the disposal at sea of dredged spoils provided that:
1. they do not contain significant quantities and concen­ trations of substances to be defined by the Commis­ sion and listed in Annexes I and II of the present Con­ vention ; and
2. the dumping is carried out under a prior special permit given by the appropriate national authority, either
a) within the area of the territorial sea of the Con­ tracting Party; or
b) outside the area of the territorial sea, whenever necessary, after prior consultations in the Com­ mission.
When issuing such permits the Contracting Party shall comply with the provisions in Regulation 3 of this Annex.
1. The appropriate national authority referred to in
tory or flying its flag, when the loading occurs in the territory of a State not Party to the present Conven­ tion.
3. When issuing permits under Sub-Paragraph 1 a) above, the appropriate national authority shall comply with Regulation 3 of this Annex, together with such additional criteria, measures and requirements as they may consider relevant.
4. Each Contracting Party shall report to the Commis­ sion, and where appropriate to other Contracting Parties, the information specified in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regu­ lation 2 of this Annex. The procedure to be followed and
' the nature of such reports shall be determined by the Commission.
When issuing special permits according to Regulation 1 of this Annex the appropriate national authority shall
1. Quantity of dredged spoils to be dumped.
2. The content of the matter referred to in Annexes I
and II of the present Convention.
3. Location (e.g. co-ordinates of the dumping area, depth and distance from coast) and its relation to areas of special interest (e.g. amenity areas, spawning, nursery and fishing areas, etc.).
4. Water characteristics, if dumping is carried out out­ side the territorial sea, consisting of:
a) hydrographic properties (e. g. temperature, salinity, density, profile);
b) chemical properties (e. g. pH, dissolved oxygen, • nutrients); . -
c) biological properties (e. g. primary production and benthic animals).
The data should include sufficient information on the annual mean levels and the seasonal vaiiation of the properties mentioned in this Paragraph.
5. The existence and effects of other dumping which 5. Vorhandensein und Auswirkung sonstigen Einbrin-
may have been carried out in the dumping area.
Reports made in accordance with Paragraph -5 of. Article 9 of the present Convention shall include the following information:
material , and counter measures taken :
a) location (e. g. co-ordinates of the accidental dump­ ing site, depth and distance from-the coast);
■-*' b) method of deposit;
.c) quantity and composition of dumped matter as well as its physical (o. g. solubility and density), chemi­ cal and biodiemical ' e. g. oxygen demand, nutrients), and biological properties , (e. g. presence
of viruses, bacteria, yeasts, parasites);
d) toxicity ;
e) content of the substances referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention ;
f) dispersal characteristics (e. g. effects of currents and wind, and horizontal transport and vertical mixing );
g) water characteristics (e. g. temperature, pH, redox conditions, salinity and stratification);
h) bottom characteristics (e. g. topogtaphy, geological characteristics and redox conditions ) ;
i) counter measures taken and follow-up operations i) carried out or planned.
2. General considerations and conditions :
a) possible effects on amenities (e. g. floating or stranded material, turbidity, objectionable odour, discolouration and foaming); .
 b) possible effect on marine life, fish and shellfish culture, fish stocks and fisheries, seaweed harvest­ ing and cultures; and
c) possible effects on other uses of the sea (e.g. impairment of water quality for industrial use, underwater corrosion of structures, interference with ship operations from floating materials, inter­ ference with fishing or navigation and protection of areas of special importance for scientific or conservation purposes).,.
For the purposes of this Annex :
"Ship" means a vessel of any type whatsoever operating in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
"Administration" means the Government of the Slate under whose authority the ship is operating. With
respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag of any Slate, the Administration is the Government of that State. With
respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the .coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Gov6mment of the coastal
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances, means any ' release howsoever caused from a ship and in­ cludes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pump­
ing, emitting or emptying. "Discharge " does not include :
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated offshore processing of sea-bed mineral resources ; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
The Contracting Parlies undertake to maintain ability to combat spillages of oil and other harmful substances on the sea. This ability shall include adequate equip­ ment, ships and manpower prepared for operations in coastal waters as well as on the high sea.
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, devel­ op and apply, individually or in co-operation, surveillance activities covering the Baltic Sea Area, . in order to spot and monitor oil and other harmful substances released into the sea.
In the case of loss overboard of harmful substances in packages, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons, tBe Contracting Parties shall co-operate in the salvage and recovery of such packages, containers
or tanks so as to minimize the danger to the envirer.- ment.
1. The Contracting Parties shall develop ami apply a system for receiving, channeling and dispatching reports on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea, as well as any incident causing or likely to cause any kind of significant pollution.
2. The Contracting Parties shall request masters of ships and pilots of aircraft to report without delay in accordance with this system on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea. Such reports should as far as possible contain the following dala : time , position , wind and sea conditions , and kind , extent and probable source of the spill observed.
3. The master of a ship involved in an incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation, or other person having charge of the ship, shall without delay and to the fullest extent possible report in accordance with this system and with the provisions of the Apjfendix to the present Annex.
4. Each- Contracting Party undertakes to issue instruc­ tions to its maritime inspection vessels and aircraft and to other appropriate services, to report to its authorities any observation or incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation. Such reports shall as far as possible contain the data referred to in Paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Regulation respectively, as well as possible indications on the spreading or drifting tendencies of the spill in question.
5. Whenever a Contracting Party is aware of a casualty or the presence of spillages of oil or other harmful substances in the Baltic Sea Area likely to constitute a serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area or the coast or related interests of any other Contracting Party, it shall without delay transmit all relevant information thereon to the Contracting Party which may be affected by the pollutant and, as regards ship casualty incidents, to the Administration of the ship involved.
- Each Contracting Party shall request masters of ships flying its flag to provide, in case of an incident, on re­ quest by the proper authorities, such detailed informa­ tion about the ship and its cargo which is relevant to actions for preventing or combatting pollution of the sea, and to co-operate with these authorities.
1. a) The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible agree bilaterally or multilaterally on those regions of the Baltic Sea Area in which they will take action for combatting or salvage activities whenever a significant spillage of oil or other harmful substances or any in­ cidents causing or likely to cause pollution within the Baltic Sea Area have occurred or are likely to occur. Such agreements shall not prejudice any other agree­ ments concluded between Contracting Parties concerning the same subject. The neighbouring States shall ensure the harmonization of the different agreements. The Contracting Parties shall inform each other about such agreements.
The Contracting Parties may ask the Commission for assistance to reach agreement, if needed. *
 b) The Contracting Party within whose region a situation as described in Regulation 1 of this Annex occurs shall make the necessary assessments of the situation and take adequate action in order to avoid or minimize subsequent pollution effects and shall keep drifting parts of the spillage under observation until no further action is called for.
2. In the case that such a spillage is drifting ot is likely to drift into a region, where another Contracting Party should take action for purposes as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of this Regulation, that Party shall without delay be informed of the situation and the actions that have been taken .
A Contracting Party requiring assistance for combatting spillages of oil or other harmful substances, at sea is entitled to call for assistance by other Contracting Parties, starting with those who seem likely also to be affected by the spillage. Contracting Parties called upon for assistance in accordance with this Regulation shall use their best endeavours to bring such assistance. .
1. The Contracting Parties shall provide information to the other Contracting Parties and the Commission about
a) their national organization for dealing with spillages at sea of oil and other harmful substances;
. b) . national regulations and other matters which have a direct bearing on combatting pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances ; *
c) the competent authority responsible for receiving and dispatching reports of pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances;
d) the competent authorities for dealing with questions concerning measures of mutual assistance, informa­ tion and co-operation between the Contracting Parties according to this Annex;
e). actions taken in accordance with Regulation 8 of this . e) die nach Regel 8 getroffenen Maßnahmen.
2. The Contracting Parties shall exchange information of research and development programs and" results con­ cerning ways in which pollution by oil and other harmful substances at sea may be dealt with and experiences in combatting such pollution.
The authorities referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Regulation 9 of this Annex shall establish direct contact and co-operate in operational matters.
on Incidents Involving Harmful Substances
Duty to Report
1. The Master of a ship involved in an incident re­ ferred to in Regulation 3 of this Appendix, or other per­ son having charge of the ship, shall report the particulars of such incident without delay and to the fullest extent possible in accordance with the provisions of this Appendix .
2. In the event of the ship referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation being abandoned, or in the event of a report from such ship being incomplete or unobtainable, the owner, charterer, manager or operator of the ship, or their agents shall, to the fullest extent possible assume the obligations placed upon the Master under the provi­ sions of this Appendix.
1. Each report shall be made by radio whenever possible, but in any case by the fastest channels avail­ able at the time the report is made. Reports made by radio shall be given the highest possible priority.
2. Reports shall be directed to the appropriate officer
or agency referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regula­ ' oder Stelle nach Regel 9 Absatz 1 Buchstabe c der An­
tion 9 of Annex VI of the- present Convention.
When to Make Reports
The report shall be made whenever an incident in­ volves :
a) a discharge other than as permitted under the present Convention; or
b) a discharge permitted under, the present Convention
by virtue of the fact that :
(i) it is for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or Saving life at sea; or
(ii) it results from damage to the ship or its equip­ ment; or
c) a discharge of a harmful substance for the purpose of combatting s specific pollution incident or for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abate­ ment or control; or
d) the probability of a discharge referred to in Sub- Paragraph a), b), or c) of this Regulation...
Contents of Report .
the identity of ship;
the time and date of the occurrence of the incident;
the geographic position of the ship when the incideift occurred ;
d) the wind and sea conditions prevailing at the time of d) wind- und Seeverhaltnisse zur Zeit des Ercignisses
- the incident : and
-c) relevant details respecting the condition of the ship.
2. Each report shall contain, in parlicular:
a) a clear indication or description of the harmful substances involved, including, if possible, the correct technical names of such substances (trade natnes should not be used in place of the correct technical names);
■ b) a Statement or estimate of the quantities, concentra- tions and likely conditions of harmful substances discharged or likely to be discharged mto the sea;
c) where relevant, a description of the packaging and jdentifying marks; and
d) if possible the name of the consignor, consignee or manufacturer. . -
3. Each report shall clearly indicate whether the harm- ful substance discharged, or likely to be discharged is oil, a noxious liquid substance, a noxious solid substance, oi_a noxious gaseous substance and whether such substance was or is carried in bulk or contained in packaged form, freight Containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons.
4. Each report shall be supplemented as necessary by any other relevant information requested by a recipient of the report or which the person sending the report deems appropriate.
Supplemen tary Repo rt
Any person who is obliged under the provisions of this Appendix to send a report shall, when possible:
a) supplement the initial report, as necessary, with in- formation concerning further developments; and
b) comply as fully as possible with requests from affect- ed States for additional information concerning the incident.
'Article 6 - Principles and obligations concerning land-based pollution. *1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to
control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area.
3h particular , the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollution by noxious sub­ stances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present
Convention. To this end they shall, inter alia, as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines , standards or regulations concerning discharges , environmental quality and products containing such substances
and materials and their use.
*3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present * Convention shall not be introduced into the marine environment
' of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior
' special permit , itfhich may bo periodically revievjed , by the
CONSCIOUS of the indispensable economic, social and cultural values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area and its living resources for the peoples of the Contracting Parties,-
BEARING in mind the exceptional hydrograph'ic and ecological characteristics of the Baltic Sea. Area and the sensitivity of its living resources to changes in the environment ;
NOTING the rapid development of human activities at the Baltic Sea Area, the considerable population living within its catchment area and the highly urbanized and industrialized state of the Contracting Parties as well as their intensive agriculture and forestry;
on the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area
NOTING with deep concern the increasing pollution of the Baltic Sea Area, originating from mapy sources
well as through airborne
CONSCIOUS of the responsibility of the Contracting Parties to protect and enhance the values of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area for the benefit of
their peoples;
RECOGNIZING that the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of -the Baltic Sea Area are
tasks that cannot effectively be accomplished by national efforts only but that also close regional co-operation and other appropriate international measures aiming at fulfil­ ling these tasks are urgently needed ;
NOTING that' the relevant recent international con­
ventions even after having entered into force for the
tion on Fishing and Conservation of Ihe Living Resources
of which were confirmed by the signing of the Conven­ durch die Unterzeichnung dei Konvertier, von 107^ iiber
requirements to protect and enhance the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area;
NOTING the importance of scientific and technologi­ cal co-operation in the protection and enhancement of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, particu­ larly between the Contracting Parties;
 CONSCIOUS of the importance of regional intergov­
ernmental co-operation in the protection of the marine licher Zusammcnaibeit beim Schatz der Mcercsuinwclt environment of the Baltic Sea Area as an integral part of des Ostseegobiets als Teil der friedlichen Zusammenar­ the peaceful co-operation and mutual understanding be­ beit und des gegenseitigen Verständnisses zwischen tween all European States:
For the purposes of the present Convention "the Baltic Sea Area" shall be the Baltic Sea proper with the Gulf of Bothnia, the Gulf of Finland and the entrance to the Baltic Sea bounded by the parallel of the Skaw in the Skagerrak at 57 0 44' 8" N. It does not include internal waters of the Contracting Parties.
For the purposes of the present Convention:
1. "Pollution" means introduction by man, directly or ■ indirectly, of . substances or energy into the marine environment, including estuaries, resulting in such deleterious effects as hazard to human health, harm to living resources and marine life, hindrance to legiti­ mate uses of the sea including fishing, impairment of the quality for use of sea water, and reduction of
2. "Land-based pollution" means pollution of the sea 2. Der Ausdruck .Verschmutzung" vom Land aus" be­
caused by discharges from land reaching the -sea waterborne, airborne or directly from the cdast, in­ cluding outfalls from pipelines;
(i) any deliberate disposal at sea of wastes or
other matter from vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea;
(ii) any deliberate disposal at sea of vessels, air­ craft, platforms or other manrjmade structures at sea;
b) "Dumping" does not include:
(i) the disposal at sea of wastes or other matter incidental to, or derived from the normal opera­ tions of vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea and their equip­ ment, other than wastes or other matter trans­ ported by or to vessels, aircraft, platforms or other man-made structures at sea, operating for the purpose of disposal of such matter or de­ rived from the treatment of such wastes or other matter on such vessels, aircraft, platforms or structures:
(ii) placement of matter for a purpose, other than the mere disposal - thereof, provided that such
placement is not contrary to the aims of the present Convention;
4. "Vessels and aircraft* means waterborne or airborne craft of any type whatsoever. This expression includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating CTaft whether self-propelled or not, and fixed or floating platforms; '
5. 'Oil* means petroleum in any form including crude oil, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and refined products;
6. "Harmful substance-" means any hazardous, noxious, or other substance, which, if introduced into the sea,
is liable to cause
7. "Incident", means an event involving the actual or probable discharge into the sea of harmful substance, or effluents containing such a substance.
Article 3 - * Fundamental principies and obllgations , •
1. The Contracting Parties shall individually or jointly
relevant measures in order to prevent and abate pollu­ tion and to protect and enhance the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
(2) Die Vertragsparteien sorgen nach besten Kräften ours to ensure that the implementation of the present dafür, daß die Durchführung dieses Übereinkommens
2. The Contracting Parties shall use their best endeav­ Convention shall not cause an increase in the pollution
of sea areas outside the Baltic Sea Area.
to ensure that the purposes of the present Convention will be obtained in these waters.
4. The present Convention shall not apply to any
(1) Dieses Ubereinkommen betrifft" den Schutz der tion of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, Meeresumwelt des Ostseegebiels, welches das Wasser which comprises the water-body and the sea-bed includ­ und den Meeresgrund einschließlich ihrer lebenden Schätze sowie sonstiger Formen der Tier- und Pflanzen­
1. The present Convention shall apply to the protec­ ing their living resources and other forms of marine life.
2. Without prejudice to the sovereign rights in regard to their territorial sea, each Contracting Party shall im­ plement the provisions of the present Convention within its territorial sea through its national authorities.
3. While the provisions of the present Convention do
not apply to internal waters, which are under the sover­
However, each Contracting Party shall ensure, by the Jedoch stellt jede Vertragspartei durch geeignete, den
adoption of appropriate measures not impairing the oper­ ations or operational capabilities of such ships and air­ craft owned or operated by it, that such ships and air­ craft act in a manner consistent, so far as is reasonable and practicable, with the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties undertake to counteract the introduction , whether airborne , waterborne or otherwise , into the Baltic Sea Area of hazardous substances as specified in Annex I of the present Convention.
Principles and obligations concerning land-based pollution
1. The Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. In particular, the Contracting Parties shall take all appropriate measures to control and strictly limit pollu­ tion by noxious substances and materials in accordance with Annex II of the present Convention. To this end they shall, inter alia, as appropriate co-operate in the development and adoption of specific programmes, guidelines, standards or regulations concerning dis­ charges, environmental quality, and products containing such substances and materials and their use.
3. The substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention shall not be. introduced into the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area in significant quantities without a prior special permit, which may be periodically reviewed, by the appropriate national au­ thority. >
4. The appropriate national authority will inform the Commission referred to in Article 12 of the present Con­ vention of the quantity, quality and way of discharge if it considers that significant quantities of substances and materials listed in Annex II of the present Convention were discharged.
5. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to establish and adopt common criteria for issuing permits for dis­ charges . ,
6. To control and minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea" Area by harmful substances the Contracting Parties shall, in addition to the provisions of Article 5 of the present Convention, aim at attaining the goals and applying the criteria enumerated in Annex III of the present Conven­ tion.
7. I.' the discharge from a watercourse, flowing through the territories of two or more Contracting Parties or forming a boundary between them, is liable to cause pollution of the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area, the Contracting Parties concerned shall in com­ mon take appropriate measures in order to prevent and abate such pollution.
3. The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to use best practicable means in order to minimize the airborne pol­ lution of the Baltic Sea Area by noxious substances.
Prevention of pollution from ships
1. In order to protect the Baltic Sea Area from pollu­ tion by deliberate, negligent or accidental release of oil, harmful substances other than oil, and by the discharge of sewage and garbage from ships, the Contracting Par­ ties shall take measures as set out in Annex IV of the present Convention.
2. The Contracting Parties shall develop and apply
uniform requirements for the capacity and location of
facilities for the reception of residues of oil, harmful-
substances other thctn oil, including sewage and garbage,
taking into account inter alia the special needs of pas­ und wenden diese an, wobei sie unter anderem die
senger ships and combination carriers. *
 Article 8 Pleasure crait
The Contracting Parties shall, in addition to imple­
asure craft activities. The measures shall inter alia deal with adequate reception facilities for wastes from ple­ asure craft.
Article 9 Prévention of dumping
1. The Contracting Parties shall, subject to Paragraphs 2 and 4 of this Article, prohibit dumping in the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Dumping of dredged spoils shall be subject to a prior special permit by the appropriate national authority in accordance with the provisions of Annex V- of the pres­ ent Convention. t
3. Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure com­ pliance with the provisions of this Article by vessels and aircraft:
a) registered in its territory or flying its flag;
b) loading, within its territory or territorial sea, matter which is to be dumped; or
c) believed to be engaged in dumping within its ter­ ritorial sea.
4. The provisions of this Article shall not apply when the safety of human life or of a vessel or aircraft at sea is threatened by the complete destruction or total loss of the vessel or aircraft, or . in any case which constitutes a danger to human life, if dumping appears to be the only way of averting the threat and if there is every probabil­ ity that the damage consequent upon such dumping will be less than would otherwise occur. Such dumping shall be so conducted as to minimize the likelihood o. damage to human or marine life.
3. Dumping made under the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Article shall be reported and dealt with in ac­ cordance with Annex VI of the present Convention and shall also be reported forthwith to the Commission refer­ red to in Article 12 of the present Convention in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Regulation 4 of Annex V of the present Convention.
6. In case of dumping suspected to be in contravention of the provisions of this Article the Contracting Parties shall co-operate in investigating the matter in accordance with Regulation 2 of Annex IV of the present Conven­ tion.
Exploration and exploitation _ ol the sea-bed and its subsoil
Each Contracting Party shall take all appropriate meas­ ures in order to. prevent pollution of the marine en­ vironment of the Baltic Sea Area resulting from explora­ tion or exploitation of its part of the sea-bed and its subsoil or from any associated activities thereon. It shall also ensure that'adequate equipment is at hand to start an immediate abatement of pollution in that area.
Co-opcralion in combalting marine pollution
The Contracting Parties shall take measures and co­ operate as set out in Annex VI of the present Conven­ tion in order to eliminate or minimize pollution of the Baltic Sea Area bv oil or other harmful substances.
Institutional and organizational framework
1. The Baltic Marine Environment Protection Com­
mission , hereinafter referred to as " the Commission ", is
hereby established for the purposes of the present Con­ vention .
2. The chairmanship of the Commission shall be given for ench Contracting Party in turn in alphabetical order of the names of the States in the English language.
The Chairman shall serve for a period of two years, and cannot during the period of his chairmanship serve as representative of his country.
Should the chairmanship fall vacant, the Contracting Party chairing the Commission shall nominate a suc­ cessor to remain in office until the term of chairmanship of that Contracting Party expires.
3. Meetings of the Commission shall be held at least once a year upon convocation by the Chairman. Upon
dorsed by another Contracting Party, the Chaflrman shall, as soon as possible, summon an extraordinary meeting at such time and place as the Chairman determines, how­ ever, not later than ninety days from the date of the sub­ mission of the request.
4. The first meeting of the Commission shall be called by the Depositary Government and shall take place within a period of ninety days from the date fol­ lowing the entry into force of the present Convention.
5. Each Contracting Party shall have one vote in the Commission. Unless otherwise provided under the pres­ ent Convention, the Commission shall take its decisions unanimously.
The duties of the Commission
The duties of the Commission shall be:
To keep the implementation of the present Conven­ tion under continuous observation ;
To make 'recommendations on measures relating to the purposes of the present Convention ;
To keep under review the contents of the present c) Convention including its Annexes and to recommend
to the Contracting Parties such amendments to the present Convention including its Annexes as may be required including changes in the lists of substances
and materials as well as the adoption of new An­ nexes;
To define pollution control criteria, objectives for the reduction of pollution, and objectives concerning meas­ ures, particularly according to Annex III of the pres­ ent Convention ;
e) To promote in close co-operation with appropriate e)
governmental bodies, taking into consideration Sub- Paragraph f) of this Article, additional measure's to protect the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area and for this purpose:
 (i) to receive, process, summarize and disseminate from available sources relevant scientific, tech­
nological ami statistical information; and
(ii) to promote scientific and technological research;
2. The Commission shall adopt an annual or biennial
regional and other international organizations to col­ laborate in scientific and technological research as well as other relevant activities pertinent to the ob­
jectives of the present Convention;
g) To assume such other functions as may be appro­ priate under the terms of the present Convention.
Administrative provisions for the Commission
1. The working language of the Commission . shall be English ,
2. The Commission shall adopt its Rules of Procedure.
3. The office of the Commission, hereafter referred to as the "Secretariat", shall be in Helsinki.
4..The Commission shall appoint an Executive Secre­ tary and make provisions for the appointment of such other personnel as may be necessary, and determine the duties, terms and conditions of the Executive Secretary.
5. The Executive Secretary shall be the chief adminis­ trative official of the Commission and shall perform the functions that are necessary for the administration of the present Convention, the work of the Commission and other tasks entrusted to the Executive Secretary by the Commission and its Rules of Procedure .
Financial provisions for the Commission
1. The Commission shall adopt its Financial Rules.
for the fiscal period following thereafter.
3. The total amount of the budget, including any sup­ plementary budget adopted by the Commission, shall be contributed by the Contracting Parties in equal parts, unless the Commission unanimously decides otherwise .
4. Each Contracting Party shall pay the expenses related to the participation in the Commission of its rep­ resentatives, experts and advisers.
Sclcntìfic and techtiological co-operation
1. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other interna­ tional organizations , to co-operate in the fields of science , technology and other research, and to exchange data as well as other scientific information for the purposes of the present Convention.
2. Without prejudice to Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Ar­ ticle 4 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropiiate through com­ petent regional or other international organizations, to promote studies , untertake , support or contribute to prog­ rammes aimed at developing -ways and means for the
 assessment of the nature and extent of pollution, path­ hing von Art und Ilmfang der Verschmutzung, ihrer ways, exposures, risks and remedies in the Baltic Sea Wege, Angriffsstellen und Gefahren im Ostseegebiet Area, and particularly to develop alternative methods sowie Möglichkeiten der Abhilfe entwickelt werden of treatment, disposal and elimination of such matter and sollen, und insbesondere Allcrnalivmetl.oden der Be­
substances that arc likely to cause pollution of 'he ma­ rine environment of the Baltic Sea Area.
3. The Contracting Parties undertake directly, or when appropriate through competent regional or other inter­ national organizations, and, on the basis of the informa­ tion and data acquired pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article, to co-operate in developing inter-com- parable observation methods , in performing baseline studies and in establishing complementary or joint prog­ rammes for monitoring.
4. The organization and scope of work connected with the implementation of tasks referred to in the preceding Paragraphs should primarily be outlined by.the Com­ mission.
Article. 17 Responsibility for damage
The Contracting Parties undertake, as soon as pos­ sible, jointly to develop and accept rules concerning responsibility for damage resulting from acts or omis­ sions in contravention of the present Convention, includ­ ing, inter alia, limits of responsibility, criteria and proce­ dures for the determination of liability and available remedies.
Article 18 Seulement of disputes
1. In case of a dispute between Contracting Parties as to the interpretation or application of the present Con­ vention, they should seek a solution by negotiation. If the Parties concerned cannot reach agreement they should seek the good offices of or jointly request the mediation by a third Contracting Party, a qualified international org? rization or a qualified person.
2. If the Parties concerned have not been able to re­ solve their dispute through negotiation or have been unable to agree on measures as described above, such disputes shall be, upon common agreement, submitted to an ad-hoc arbitration tribunal , to a permanent - arbitra­ tion tribunal, or to the International Court of Justice.
Nothing in the present Convention shall be construed as infringing upon the freedom of navigation, fishing, marine scientific research and other legitimate uses of the high, seas, as well as upon the right of innocent pas­ sage through the territorial sea.
Article 20 Status of Annexes
The Annexes attached to the present Convention form an integral part of the Convention.
Relation to other Conventions
The provisions of the present Convention shall be wi'ho'it prejudice to '.he rights and obligations of the
 Contracting Parties under treaties concluded previously
as well as under treaties which may be concluded in the . ."uture, furthering and developing the general principles of the Law of the Sea that the present Convention is based upon and in.particular provisions concerning the
prevention of pollution of the marine environment.
- Revision of the Convention
A conference for the purpose of a general revision of - Mit Zustimmung der Vertragsparteien oder auf Er­ the present Convention may be convened with the con­ suchen der Kommission kann eine Konferenz zur allge­ sent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the meinen Revision dieses • Ubereinkommens einberufen Commission. werden.
Amendments to the Articles of the Convention
1. Each Contracting Party may propose amendments to the Articles of the present Convention. Any such pro­ posed amendment shall be submitted to the Depositary Government and communicated by it to all Contracting Parties, which shall inform the Depositary Government of either their acceptance or rejection of the amendment as soon as possible after the receipt of the communica­ tion. '
The amendment shall enter into force ninety days after the Depositary Government has received notifications of acceptance of that amendment from all Contracting Par­ ties.
' 2. With the consent of the Contracting Parties or at the request of the Commission a conference may be con­ vened for the purpose of amending the present Conven­ tion.
Amendments to the Annexes and the adoption of Annexes
1. Any amendment to the Annexes proposed by a Con­ tracting Party shall be communicated to the other Con­ tracting Parties by the Depositary Government and con­ sidered in the Commission. If adopted by the Commis­ sion, the amendment shall be communicated to the Con­ tracting Parties and recommended for acceptance.
2. Such amendment shall be deemed to have been ac­ cepted at the end of a period determined by the Com­ mission unless within that period anyone of the Con­ tracting Parties has objected to the amendment. The ac­ cepted amendment shall enter into force on a date deter­ mined by the Commission.
The period determined by the Commission shall be pro­ longed for an additional period of six months and the date of entry into force of the amendment postponed accordingly, if, in exceptional cases, any Contracting Party before the expiring of the period determined by the Commission informs the Depositary Government , that , although it intends to accept the proposal , the con­ stitutional requirements for such an acceptance are not yet fulfilled in its State.
3. An Annex to the present Convention may be adopted in accordance with the provisions of this Ar­ ticle.
4. The Depositary Government shall inform all Con­ tracting Parties of any amendments or the adoption of a new Annex which enter into force under this Article and of the date on which such amendment or new An­ nex enters into forcfi.
■ 5. Any objection under this Article shall be made by notification in writing to the Depositary Government
 which shall notify all Contracting Parties and the Ex­ ecutive Secretary of any such notification and the data of its receipt.
1. The provisions of the present Convention shall not be subject lo reservations.
2. The provision of Paragraph 1 of this Article does not prevent a Contracting Party from suspending for a period not exceeding one year the application of an Annex of the present Convention or part thereof or an amendment thereto <if!cr the Annex in rjuestion or the amendment thereto has entered into force.
3. If after the entry into force of the present Conven­ tion a Contracting Party invokes the provisions of Para­ graph 2 of this Article it shall inform the other Contract­ ing Parties, at the time of the adoption by the Commis­ sion of an amendment to an Annex-or a new Atinex, of those provisions which will be suspended in accordance with Paragraph 2 of this Article. *
Signature, ratification, approvai, and accession
1. The present Convention shall be open for signature in Helsinki on 22 March 1974 by the Baltic Sea States participating in the Diplomatic Conference on the Protec­ tion of the Marine Environment of the Baltic Sea Area, held in Helsinki from 18 to 22 March 1974. The present Convention shall be open for accession to any other State interested in fulfilling the aims and purposes of the present Convention, provided that this Staje is invited by all the Contracting Parties.
2. The present Convention shall be subject to ratifica­ tion or approval by the States which have signed it.
3. The instruments of ratification, approval, or acces­
sion shall be deposited with the Government of Finland,
which will perform the duties of the Depositary Govern­
Article 27 Entry into force
The present Convention shall enter into force two months aftef the deposit of the seventh instrument of ratification or approval.
Article 28 YVithdrawal
1. At any timet after the expiry of five years from the
dale of entry into force of the present Convention any
Contracting Party may, by giving written notification to
the Depositary Government, withdraw from the present jederzeit von dem Ubereinkommen zurücktreten. Der Convention . The withdrawal shall take effect for such
Contracting Party on the thirty-first day of December of
the year which follows the year in which the Depositary
Government was notified of the withdrawal.
2. In case of notification of withdrawal by a Contract­ considering the effect of the withdrawal.
The present Convention has been drawn up in a single copy ia the English language. Official translations into
ish languages shall be prepared and deposited with the signed original.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned Plenipoten­ present Convention.
DONE AT HELSINKI, this twenty-second day of March' . GESCHEHEN ZU HELSINKI am 22. März 1974 one thousand nine hundred and seventy-four.
 its derivatives DDE and DDD.
2. PCB's (polvchlorinated biphenyls).
The protection of the Baltic Sea Area from pollution
by the substances listed below can involve the use of
appropriate technical means, prohibitions and regulations geeignete technische Maßnahmen, durch Verbote und of the transport, trade, handling, application, and final Vorschriften über Beförderung, Handel, Handhabung, An­
 practicable means to prevent harmful substances and materials from being introduced as airborne into the Daltic Sea Area.
1. Mercury, cadmium, and their compounds.
2. Antimony, arsenic, beryllium, chromium, copper, lead, molybdenum, nickel, selenium, tin, vanadium, zinc, ' and their compounds, as well as elemental phos­ phorus .
3. Phenols and their derivatives.
4. Phthalic acid and its derivatives.
6.. Persistent halogenated hydrocarbons.
7. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and their deriva­
8. Persistent toxic organosilicic compounds.
9. Persistent pesticides, including organophosphoric and organostannic pesticides, herbicides, slimicides and chemicals used for the preservation of wood, timber, wood pulp, cellulose, paper, hides and 'textiles, hot covered by the provisions of Annex I of the present- Convention.
11. Acids, alkalis and surface active agents in high concentrations or big quantities.
12. Oil and wastes of petrochemical and other industries containing lipid-soluble substances.
13. Substances having adverse effects an the taste and/ or smell of products for .human consumption from the sea, or effects on taste, smell, colour, transparency or other characteristics of the water seriously reduc­ ing its amenity values.
14. Materials and substances which may float, remain
in suspension 'or sink , and which may seriously inter­ fere with any legitimate use of the sea.
15. Lignin substances contained in industrial waste wat­ ers.
1G. The chelators EDTA (ethylenedinitrilotetraacetic acid or ethylenccliaminetetraacetic acid) and DTPA (dic- thylenetriaminopentaacetic acid).
The list ist valid for substances and materials intro-
Noxious Substances and Materials
The following substances and materials are listed for the purposes of Article 6 of the present Convention.
 Goals, Criteria and Measures concerning the Prevention of Land-Based Pollution
In accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the present Convention the Contracting Parties shall endeav­ our to attain the goals and apply the criteria . and measures enumerated in this Annex in order to control and minimize land-based pollution of the marine environ­ ment of the Baltic Sea Area. .
1. Municipal sewage shall be treated in an appropriate way so that the amount of organic matter does not cause harmful changes in the oxygen content of the Baltic Sea Area and the amount of nutrients does not cause harmful eutrophication of the Baltic Sea Area.
2. Municipal sewage shall also be treated in an ap­ propriate, way to ensure -that the hygienic quality, and in particular epidemiological and toxicological.safety, of the receiving sea area is maintained at a level which does not cause harm to human health, and in a way that under the given composition of the sewage no significant amount of such harmful substances as are listed in An­ nexes I and II of the present Convention is formed.
3. The polluting load of industrial wastes shall be minimized in an appropriate way in order to reduce the amount of harmful substances, organic matter and nutrients.
4. The means referred to in Paragraph 3 of this Annex
shall in particular include minimization of production
and improvement of qualifications for water treatment.
In the treatment of waste water mechanical, chemical,
biological and other measures, according to the quality
of the waste water, and as required to maintain or im­
prove the quality of the recipient water, shall be applied.
5. The discharge of cooling water from nuclear power plants or other kinds of industries using large amounts of water shall be effected in a way which minimizes the pollution of the marine environment Of the Baltic Sea Area.
6. The Commission will define pollution control criteria, objectives for reduction of pollution and objectives con­ cerning measures, including processing techniques and
waste treatment, to reduce pollution of the Baltic Sea Area.
 Prevention of Pollution from Ships Regulation 1
The Contracting Parties shall as appropriate co-operate and assist each other in initiating action by the Inter- Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization to develop :
a) international rules for navigation of deep draught ships in narrow and shallow waters in international waters of the Baltic Sea Area and in the entrances
to the Baltic Sea for the prevention of collisions, strandings and groundings;
b) an international radio reporting system for large ships en route within the Baltic Sea Area as well as for
.'ships carrying a significant amount of a harmful substance .
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, as appropriate assist each other in investigating viola­ tions of the existing legislation on antipollution meas­ ures, which have occurred or are suspected to have occurred within the Baltic Sea Area. This assistance may include but is not limited to inspection by the competent authorities of oil record books, cargo record books, log books and engine log books and taking oil samples for analytical identification purposes and in respect of the system of tagging oil residues.
For the purposes of this Annex :
1. "Ship" means a vessel of any type whatsoever operat­ ing in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. 'Administration* means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag ofc. any State, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal State concerned.
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances , means any release howso-ever caused from a ship and includes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pumping,
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping'of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , - exploitation and asso-
emptying
 cuiled off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral resources; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
4. "Nearest land ". The term "from the nearest land "
means from the baseline from which the territorial sea
of the territory in question is established in accord­ ance with international law.
5. The term "jurisdiction" shall be interpreted in accord­ ance with international law in force at the time of
application or interpretation of this Annex.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1 January 1977 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on methods /or the prevention of pollution by oil ■from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
"Oil" means petroleum in any form including crude oil , . fuel oil , sludge , oil refuse and refined products (other than petrochemicals which are subject to the provisions of Regulation 5 of this Annex) and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing* includes the substances listed in Appendix 1 to this Annex.
"Oily mixture" means a mixture with any oil content.
"Oil fuel" means any oil used as fuel in connection with the propulsion and auxiliary machinery of the ship in which such oil is carried.
"Oil tanker" means a ship constructed or adapted primarily to carry oil in bulk in its cargo spaces and includes combination carriers and .any "chemical tanker" as defined in Regulation 5 of this Annex when it is carrying a cargo or part cargo of oil in bulk.
Combination carrier" means a ship designed to carry either oil or solid cargoes in bulk.
"Clean ballast" means the ballast in a tank which
since oil Was last carried therein has been so cleaned
that effluent therefrom if it were discharged from a
ship which is stationary into clean calm water on a
clear day would not produce visible traces of oil
on the surface of the water or on adjoining shore
lines or cause a sludge or emulsion.to be deposited
beneath the surface of the water or upon adjoining
shore lir.es. If the ballast is discharged through an oil
dischaige monitoring and control system approved by
the Administration, evidence based on such a system to the effect that the oil content of the effluent did
not exceed 15 parts per million shall be determinative
that the batl<6t was clean , presence of visible traces.
notwithstanding
1. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this
7. "Segregated ballast* means the ballast water intro­ duced into a tank which is completely separated from the. cargo oil and oil fuel system and which is permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious substances as variously defined in the Regula­ tions of this Annex.
B Control of Discharge of Oil
mixtures from any oil tanker and any ship of 400 tons gross tonnage and above other than an oil tanker shall be prohibited, while in the Baltic Sea Area;
b) such ships while in the Baltic Sea Area shall retain on board all oil drainage and sludge, dirty ballast and tank washing waters and discharge them only to reception facilities.
2. a) Subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this
mixtures from a ship of less than 400 tons gross tonnage, other than an oil tanker, shall be prohibited while in the Baltic Sea Area, except when the oil content of the effluent without dilution does not exceed 15 parts per million or alternatively when all of the following condi­ tions are satisfied :
(i) the ship is proceeding en route ;
(ii) the oil content of the effluent is less than 100 parts per million : and
(iii) the discharge is made as far as practicable from the land, but in no case less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land ; *
b) no discharge into the sea shall contain chemicals or other substances in quantities or concentrations which are hazardous to the marine environment or chemicals
or other substances introduced for the purpose of circum­ venting the conditions of discharge specified in this Regulation ;
c) the oil residues which cannot be discharged into the sea in compliance with Sub-Paragraph 2a) of this Paragraph shall be retained on board or discharged to reception facilities.
3. The provisions of this Paragraph shall not apply to the discharge of clean or segregated ballast.
4. Whenever visible traces of oil are observed -on or
below the surface of the water in the immediate vicinity
of a ship or its wake, the Contracting Parties should, to
the extent they are reasonably able to do so, promptly parteien, soweit dies zumutbar und möglich ist, um­ investigate the facts bearing on the issue of whether gehend die mit der Frage, ob ein Verstoß gegen diese there has been. a. violation of the provisions of this Regel vorliegt, zusammenhängenden Tatsachen unter­ Regulation. The investigation should include, in particu­ suchen. Die Untersuchung soll insbesondere die Wind- lar, the wind and sea conditions, the track and speed und Seeverhältnisse, den Kurs und die Geschwindigkeit
of the ship, other possible sources of the visible traces in the vicinity, and any relevant oil discharge records.
Paragraph B of this Regulation shall not apply to:
resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment:
 (i) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken alter the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge; and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted •either with intont to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or
c) the discharge into the-sea of substances containing oil, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution in­ cidents in order to minimize the damage from pollu­ tion. Any such discharge shall be subject to the approval of any Contracting Party in whose jurisdic­ tion it is contemplated the discharge will occur.
ft Special Requirements for Drilling Rigs and other Platfojms
Fixed and floating drilling rigs when engaged in the exploration , exploitation and associated offshore process­ ing of sea-bed mineral resources and other platforms shall 'comply with the requirements of this Regulation applicable to ships of 400 tons gross tonnage and above Other than oil tankers, except that:
a) they shall keep a record of all operations involving oil or oily mixture discharges, in a form approved by the Administration; and
b) subject to the provisions of Paragraph C of this Regulation, the discharge into the se£ of oil or oily mixtures shall be prohibited except when the oil content of the discharge without dilution does not exceed 15 parts per million.
E Reception Facilities of the Baltic Sea Area
The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure that not later than 1 January 1977 all oil loading terminals and repair ports of the Baltic Sea Area are provided with facilities adequate for the reception and treatment of all the dirty ballast and tank washing waters from oil tankers. In addition all ports, of the area shall be provided with adequate reception facilities for other residues and oily mixtures from all ships. Such facilities shall have adequate capacity to meet the needs of the ships using them without causing undue delay.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible, but
not later than 1 January 1977 or at a date not later
than one year after the date of the entry into force of
the present Convention, whichever occurs later, decide
upon a date from which the provisions of Paragraphs A
to D of this Regulation oil the discharge of noxious ger Stoffe als Massengut aus Schiffen, die im Ostsee­ liquid substances in bulk from ships while operating in gebiet betrieben werden, Anwendung finden. ■
the Baltic Sea Area shall apply.
For the purpores of this Regulation:
adapted primarily to ratry a cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk and includes an 'oil tanker" as
 defined in Regulation 4 of this Annex when carrying a cargo or part cargo of noxious liquid substances in bulk.
2. 'Clean ballast" means ballast carried in a tank which, since it was last used to carry a cargo containing a substance in Category A, B, C, or D has been thor­ oughly cleaned and the residues resulting therefrom have been discharged and the tank emptied in accord­ ance with the appropriate requirements of this Regula­ tion.
3. "Segregated ballast" means ballast -water introduced into a tank permanently allocated to the carriage of ballast or to the carriage of ballast or cargoes other than oil or noxious liquid substances as variously defined in the Regulations of this Annex, and which is completely separated from the cargo and oil fuel system.
4. "Liquid substances" are those having a vapour pres­ sure not exceeding 2.8 kp / cm2 at a temperature of 37.8 °C.
designated in Appendix III to this Annex or provi­ sionally ' assessed under the provisions of Sub-Para­ graph 4 of Paragraph B of this Regulation as falling into Category A, B, C, or D:
B Categorization and Listing of Noxious Liquid Substances
1. For the purposes of this Regulation noxious liquid substances shall be divided into four categories as fol­ lows:
a) Category A – noxious liquid substances .which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a major hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause serious harm to amenities or other legitimate uses, of the sea and therefore justify the application of stringent anti-pollution measures ;
b) Category B – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore justify the application of special anti-pollu­ tion measures;
c) Category C – noxious liquid substances which if c) Gruppe C [- schädliche flüssige Stoffe, die, wenn sie
discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a minor hazard to either marine . resources or human health or cause
minor harm to amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea and therefore require special operational conditions ;
d) Category D – noxious liquid substances which if discharged into the sea from lank cleaning or debal­ lasting operations would present a recognizable hazard to either marine resources or human health or cause minimal harm to amenities or other legiti­ mate uses of the sea . and therefore require sonic attention in operational conditions.
 2. Guidelines for use in the categorization of noxious liquid substances are given in Appendix II to this Annex.
3. The list of noxious liquid substances carried in bulk o.nd presently categorized which are subject to the provi­ sions of this Regulation is set out in Appendix III to this Annex.
4. Where it is proposed to carry a liquid substance in bulk which has not been categorized under Sub-Para­ graph 1 of this Paragraph or 'evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph C of this Regulation the Contracting Parties involved in the proposed operation shall establish and agree on a provisional assessment for the proposed operation on the basis of the guidelines referred to in Sub-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph. Until full agreement between the Governments involved has been reached, the substance shall be carried under the most severe conditions proposed.
1. The substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex have been evaluated and found to fall outside the Categories A, B, C, and D, as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph B of this Regulation because they are presently considered to present no harm to human health, marine resources, amenities or other legitimate uses of the sea, when discharged into the sea from tank cleaning or deballasting operations.
2. The discharge of bilge or ballast water or other residues or mixtures containing only substances listed in Appendix IV to this Annex shall not be subject to any requirement of this Regulation.
3. The discharge into the sea of cleaft ballast or ment of this Regulation,
D Discharge of Noxious Liquid Substances
Subject to the provisions of Paragraph E of this Regu­ lation :
1. The discharge into the sea of substances in Category A as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of Para­ graph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures c'ontaining such substances shall be prohibited. If tanks containing .?uch substances or mixtures are to be washed, the resulting residues shall be discharged to a reception facility which the Contract­ ing Parties shall provide in accordance v/ith Paragraph H of this Regulation, until the concentration of the sub­ stance in the effluent to such facility is at or below the residual concentration prescribed for that substance in column IV of Appendix III to this Annex and until the tank is empty. Provided that the residue then remaining in the tank is subsequently diluted by the addition of a volume of water of not less than 5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, it may be discharged into the sea v/hen all the following conditions are also satisfied:
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a -speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled .ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are not self- propelled ;
b) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account the location of the seawater intakes; and .
c) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than
12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not than 25 metres.
or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro­ hibited except when all the following conditions are satisfied : .
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which are no', self- propelled;
2. The discharge into the sea of substances in Category B as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of Para­ graph B of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank wa.hings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited except when all the following condi­ tions are satisfied:
a) the tank has been washed after unloading with a volume of water of not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, and the resulting residues have been discharged to a reception facility until the tank is empty;
b) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of. ships which are not self- propelled;
washings are approved by the Administration and . shall ensure that the concentration and rate of dis­
charge of the effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the wake astern of the ship .does not exceed 1 part per million;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, -taking into account the location of the seawater intakes; and
12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth of water of not less than 25 metres.
3. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate­
gory C as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Paragraph B
of this Regulation or of those provisionally assessed as
such or ballast watei, tank washings, or other residues Ballastwasser, Tankwaschwasser oder sonstigen Rück­
approved by the Administration and shall e'.sure that the concentration and rate of discharge of tine effluent is such that the concentration of the substance in the
wake astern of the ship does not exceed 1 part per million ;
c) the maximum quantity of cargo discharged from each c) die Höchstmenge der aus jedem Tank und dem dazu­
tank and its associated piping system does Hot exceed the maximum quantity approved in accordance with the procedures referred to in Sub-Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph which shall in no case exceed the greater of 1 cubic metre or 1 / 3.000 of the tank capac­ ity in cubic metres ;
d) the discharge is made below the waterline, taking into account thfe location of the seawater intakes; and
e) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land and in a depth
. of water of not less than 25 metres.
4. The discharge into the sea of substances in Cate­ gory D as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Paragraph B of this Regulation, or of those provisionally assessed as such or ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be pro­ hibited except when all the following conditions are satisfied : -
a) the ship is proceeding en route at a speed of at least 7 knots in the case?of self-propelled ships or at least 4 knots in the case of ships which arc not self- propelled ;
 b) such mixtures are of a concentration not greater than one part of the substance in ten parts of water; and
c) the discharge is made at a distance of not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
5. Ventilation procedures approved by the Administra­ tion may be used to remove cargo residues from a tank. If subsequent washing of the tank is necessary, the discharge into the sea of the resulting tank washings shall be made in accordance with Sub-Paragraphs 1, 2, 3, or 4 of this Paragraph, whichever is applicable.
6. The discharge into the sea of substances which have not been categorized , provisionally assessed , or evaluated as referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 of Para­ graph C of this Regulation, or of ballast water, tank washings, or other residues or mixtures containing such substances shall be prohibited.
Paragraph D of this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea: or
the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances
or mixtures containing such substances resulting from . damage to a ship or its equipment:
(i) provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken after the occurrence of the damage or discovery of the discharge for the purpose of preventing or minimizing the discharge and
(ii) except if the owner or the Master acted either with intent to cause damage, or recklessly and with knowledge that damage would probably result; or '
the discharge into the sea of noxious liquid substances or mixtures containing such substances, approved by the Administration, when being used for the purpose of combatting specific pollution incidents in order to minimize the damage from pollution. Any such dis­ charge shall be subject to the approval of any Con* trading Party in whose jurisdiction it is contemplated
. the discharge will occur.
F Measures of Control
1. The Contracting Parties shall appoint or authorize surveyors for the purpose of implementing this Para­ graph .
2. a) If a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pump­ ing or transfer operation carried out in connection with that tank shall also be entered in the' Cargo Record Book.
3. If the tank is to be washed:
a) the effluent from the tank washing operation shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility at least until the concentration of the substance in the
discharge, as indicated by analyses of samples of the effluent taken by the surveyor, has fallen to the residual concentration specified for th'at substance In Appendix III to i;..s Annex. V/hc.i the required re-
 sidual concentration has been achieved , remaining ' tank washings shall continue to be discharged to the reception facility until the tank is empty. Appropriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo
Record Book and certified by the surveyor; and
b) after diluting the residue then remaining in the tank with at least 5 per cent of the tank capacity of water, this mixture may be discharged into the sea in ac­ cordance with the provisions of Sub-Paragraphs 1 a), b), and c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. Ap­ propriate entries of these operations shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
4. Where the Government of the receiving Party is
satisfied that it is impracticable to measure the concen­
tration of the substance in the effluent without causing
graph 3 a) of this Paragraph provided that :
a) a precleaning procedure for that tank and that sub­ stance is approved by fhe Administration and that Party is satisfied that such procedure will fulfil the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 1 of Paragraph D of this Regulation with respect to the attainment of the prescribed residual concentrations;
b) a surveyor duly authorized by that Party shall certify in the Cargo Record Book that:
(i) the tank, its pump and piping system have been emptied, and that the quantity of cargo remaining in the tank is at or below the quantity on which the approved precleaning procedure referred to in Sub-Paragraph (ii) of this Sub-Paragraph has been based;
(ii) precleaning has been carried out in accordance with the precleaning procedure approvefd by the Administration for that tank and that substance; and
(iii) the tank washings resulting from such preclean­ ing have been discharged to a reception facility and the tank is empty ;
c) the discharge into the sea of any remaining residues c) sofern das Einleiten etwaiger verbleibender Rück­
shall be in accordance with the provisions of Sub- Paragraph 3 b) of this Paragraph and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may-..be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall , with respect to a Category B substance , ensure compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) until that tank is cleaned every subsequent pumping or transfer operation carried out in connection with that tank shall also be entered in the Cargo Record Book ;
c) if the tank is to be washed, the effluent from the c) soll der Tank ausgewaschen worden, so ist der beim
tank washing operation, which shall contain a volume of water not less than 0.5 per cent of the total volume of the tank, shall be discharged from the ship to a reception facility until the tank, its pump and piping system are empty. An appropriate entry shall be mode in the Cargo Record Book;
d) if the tank is to bo further cleaned and emptiod at d) soll der Tank auf See. weiter gereinigt oder geleert
sea, the Master shall:
 (i) ensure that the approved procedures referred to , in Sub-Paragraph 2 cl of Paragraph D of this Regu­ lation are complied with and lhat the appropriate entries are made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(ii) ensure that any discharge into the sea. is made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Para­ graph 2 of Paragraph D of this Regulation and an appropriate entry is made in the Cargo Record Book ;
e) if after unloading a Category B substance, any res­ idues of tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the Baltic Sea Area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
6. Subject to such surveillance and approval by the authorized or appointed surveyor as may be deemed necessary by the Contracting Party, the Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Category C substance,,ensure compliance with the following:
a) if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not ■ cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
b) .if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
. (ii) the quantity of substance remaining in the tank shall not exceed the maximum quantity which may be discharged into the sea for that sub­ stance under Sub-Paragraph 3 c) of Paragraph D of this Regulation. An appropriate efltry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; '
(iii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea the approved procedures shall be complied with, and the necessary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An ap­ propriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(iv) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(v) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 3 of "Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
(i) the tank- washings shall be discharged to a recep­ tion facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location and disposition of the tank washings;
d) if after unloading a Category C substance within the Baltic Sea Area, any residues or tank washings are to be retained on board until the ship is outside the area, the Master shall so indicate by an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
7. The Master of a ship shall, with respect to a Cate­ gory D substance, ensure compliance with the following:
 aj if a tank is partially unloaded or unloaded but not cleaned, an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book;
b) if the tank is to be cleaned at sea:
(i) the cargo piping system serving that tank shall be drained and an appropriate entry made in the Cargo Record Book;
(ii) where it is intended to discharge the quantity of substance remaining into the sea, the neces­ sary dilution of the substance satisfactory for such a discharge shall be achieved. An appro­ priate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book ;
(iii) where the tank washings are not discharged into the sea, if any internal transfer of tank washings takes place from that tank an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; and
(iv) any subsequent discharge into the sea of such tank washings shall be made in accordance with ' the requirements of Sub-Paragraph 4 of 'Para­ graph D of this Regulation;
c) if the tank is to be cleaned in port:
- (i) the tank washings shall be discharged to a recep­
tion- facility and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book; or
(ii) the tank washings shall be retained on board the ship and an appropriate entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book indicating the location
- and disposition of the tank washings.
8. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank,
including those from pump room bilges, which contain a
Category A or a Category B substance, shall be dis­
charged to a reception facility in accordance with the halten, sind nach Maßgabe des Abschnitts D Absatz 1 provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 or 2 of Paragraph D of- oder 2 in eine Auffanganlage einzuleiten. Eine ent­ this Regulation, whichever is applicable. An appropriate-
entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book.
9. Any residues retained on board in a slop tank,
the Cargo Record Book. .
1. Every ship to which this Regulation applies shall be provided with a Cargo Record Book, whether as part of the ship's official log book or otherwise, in the form specified in Appendix V to this Annex.
2. The Cargo Record Book shall be completed, on a tank-to-tank basis, whenever any of the following opera­ tions with respect to a noxious liquid substance takes place in the ship :
(i) loading of cargo ;
(ii) unloading of cargo ;
(iii) transfer of cargo ;
(iv) transfer of cargo, cargo residues or mixtures con­ taining cargo to a slop tank ;
(v) cleaning of cargo tanks ; (vi ) transfer from slop lanksj (vu) banastuin of cargo tanks;
(vm ) transfer of dirty ballast water ;
(ix) discharge into the sea in accordance with Para­ graph D of this Regulation.
 • 3. In the event of any discharge of the kind referred to in Annex VI of the present Convention and Para­ graph E of this Regulation of any noxious liquid sub­ stance or mixture containing such substance, whether intentional or accidental, an entry shall be made in the Cargo Record Book stating the circumstances of,- and the reason for, the discharge.
4. When a surveyor appointed or outhorized' by a Contracting Party to supervise any operations under this Regulation has inspected a ship, then that surveyor shall make an appropriate entry in the Cargo Record Book.
5. Each operation referred to in Sub-Paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Paragraph shall be fully recorded without delay in the Cargo Record Book so that all the entries in the Book appropriate to that operation are completed. Each entry shall be signed by the officer or officers in charge of the operation concerned and , when the ship is manned , each page shall be signed by the Master of 'the ship. The entries in the Cargo Record Book shall be in an official language of the Slate whose flag the ship is entitled to fly , and , except when the ship is engaged in domestic voyages , in English or French . The entries in an official national language of the State whose flag the ship is entitled to fly shall prevail in case of a dispute or discrepancy.
6. The Cargo Record Book shall be kept in such a place as to be readily available for inspection and, except in the case of unmanned ships under tow, shall be kept on board the ship. It shall be retained for a period of two years after the last entry has been made.
7. The competent authority of a Contracting -Party may
inspect the Cargo Record Book on board any ship to Jcann das Ladungstagebuch an Bord jedes Schiffes, für
which this Regulation applies while the ship is in its port,
and may make a copy of any entry in that Book and may
require the Master of the ship to certify that the copy
is a true copy of such entry. Any copy so made which
has been certified by the Master of the ship as a true
copy of an entry in the ship's Cargo Record Book shall
be made admissible in any judicial proceedings as
evidence of the facts stated in the entry. The inspection
of a Cargo Record Book and the taking of a certified
copy by the competent authority under this Paragraph
shall be performed as expeditiously as possible without • dieses Abschnitts sind so schnell wie möglich und ohne
causing the ship to be unduly delayed.
1. The Contracting Parties undertake to ensure "the provision of reception facilities according to the needs of ships using their ports, terminals or repair ports of the Bailie Sea Area a^ follows:
n) cargo loading, and unloading ports and terminals shall have facilities adequate for reception without undue delay to ships of such residues and mixtures con­ taining noxious liquid substances as would remain for disposal from ships carrying them as a conse­ quence of the application of this Regulation; and
b) »hip repair ports undertaking repairs to chemical tan­ kers shall have facilities adequate for the reception of residues and mixtures containing noxious liquid substances.
2. Each Contracting Party shall determine the types of facilities provided fen- the purpose of Sub-Paragraph 1
poits, terminals and ship repair ports of the Baltic Sea" Area.
Harmful substances In packaged forms
A. The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible apply suitable uniform rules for the carriage of harmful substances in packaged forms or in freight containers, portable tanks or road and rail tank wagons.
B. With respect to certain harmful substances, as may be designated by the Commission, the Master or owner of the ship or his representative shall notify the appro­ priate port authority of the intent to load or unload such substances at least 24 hours prior to such action.
C. A report of an incident involving harmful sub­ stances shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex VI of the present Convention.
The Contracting Parties shall apply the provisions of Paragraphs A' to D of this Regulation on discharge of sewage ships while operating in the Baltic Sea rArea.
For the purposes of this Regulation :
"New ship* means a ship:
a) for which the building contract is placed, or in the absence of a building contract, the keel of which is laid, or which is at a similar stage of construc­ tion, on or after the date of entry into force of the present Convention : or
b) the delivery of which is three years or more after the date of entry into force of the present Conven­ tion.
"Existing ship" means a ship which is not a new ship.
a) drainage and other wastes from any form of toilets, urinals, and WC scuppers;
b) drainage from medical premises (dispensary, sick bay, etc.) via wash basins, wash tubs and scuppers located in such premises ;
c) drainage from spaces containing living animals; or
d) other waste waters when mixed with the drainages, defined above.
"Holding tank" means a tank used for the collection and storage of sewage.
1. The provisions of this Regulation shall apply to:
a) new ships certified to carry more than 100 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1977;
b) existing ships certified to carry more than 400 persons from a date not later than 1 January 1978; and
and (iii), from dates decided by the Contracting Par­ ties on recommendation by the Commission :
(i) ships of 200 tons gross tonnage and above;
 (ii) ships of less' lhan 200 tons gross tonnage which arc certified to carry more than 10 persons;
(iii) ships which do not have a measured gross ton­ nage and arc certified to carry more than 10 per­ sons.
In the case of new such ships the date shall be not later than 1 January 1979. In the case of existing such ships the date shall bo not later than ten yea/s after the date decided for new ships.
2. A Contracting Party may, if it is satisfied that the application of the provisions of Sub-Paragraph 1 b) of this Paragraph with respect to a certain ship would necessi­ tate constructional alterations which would be unreason­ able, exempt the ship from the application until a date not later than ten years after the date of entry into force of the present Convention.
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph D of this Regulation, the discharge of sewage into the sea is pro­ hibited, except when:
a) the ship is discharging comminuted and disinfected sewage using a system approved by the Administra­ tion at a distance of more , than 4 nautical miles from the nearest land, or sewage which is not comminuted or disinfected at a distance of more than 12 nautical
miles from the nearest land, provided that in any case the sewage that has been stored in holding tanks shall not be discharged instantaneously but at a moderate rate when the ship is en route and proceeding at not less than 4 knots; or
b) the ship has in operation a sewage treatment plant which has been approved by the Administration, and
(i) the test results of the plant are laid down in a document carried by the ship;
(ii) additionally, the effluent shall not produce visible floating solids in, nor cause discolouration of the surrounding water; or
c) the ship is situated in the waters undeT the jurisdic­ c) daß das Schiff sich in Gewässern im Hoheitsbereich
tion of a State and is discharging sewage in accords ance with such less stringent requirements as may be imposed by such State.
2. When the sewage is mixed with wastes of waste water having different discharge requirements, the.more stringent requirements shall apply.
Paragraph C of.this Regulation shall not apply to:
a) the discharge of sewage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or
b) the discharge of sewage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment if all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the discharge.
1. Each Contracting Parly undertakes to ensure the
provision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the
 causing' undue delay to ships, adequate to meet the needs of the ships using them.
2. To enable pipes of reception facilities to be con­ nected with the ship's discharge pipeline, both lines shall be fitted with a standard discharge connection in accord­ ance with the following table :
Standard Dimensions ot Flanges for Discharge Connections
Slo.ts in flange
Flange thickness
Bolts and nuts: quantity and diameter
According to pipe outside diameter
equidisfantly placed on a
bolt circle of the above
diameter, slotted to the
flange periphery. The slot width to be 18 mm
4, each of 16 mm in diam­ eter and of suitable length
The flange is designed to accept pipes up to a maxi­ mum internal diameter of 100 mm and shall be of steel
or other equivalent material having a flat face. This flange, together with a suitable gasket, shall be suitable for a service pressure of 6 kg/cm!.
For ships having a moulded depth of 5 metres and less, the inner diameter of the discharge connection may be 38 millimetres.
The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible but not later than 1«January 1976 or on the date of entry into force of the present Convention, whichever occurs later, apply the provisions of Paragraphs A to D of this Regulation on the disposal of garbage from ships while operating in the Baltic Sea Area.
For the purposes of this Regulation:
"Garbage* means .1" kinds of victual, domestic and operational waste excluding fresh fish and parts thereof, generated durintj the normal Operation of the ship and liable to be disposed of continuously or periodically ex- cept those substance^which are defined or listed in other Rcgulalions of this Annex.
 D Disposal of Garbage
1. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs C and D of this Régulation:
a) disposal into Ihe sea of the following is prohibited:
(i) all plastics, including but not limited to synthetic ropos, synthetic fishing nets and plastic garbage bags; and
(ii) all other garbage, including paper products, rags, glass, metal, bottles, crockery, dunnage, lining and packing materials;
b) disposal into the sea of food wastes shall be made as far as practicable from land, but in any case not less than 12 nautical miles from the nearest land.
2. When the garbage is mixed with other discharges having different disposal or discharge requirements the more stringent requirements shall apply.
C Special Requirement's for Fixed and Floating Platforms • '
1. Subject to the provisions of SuB-Paragraph 2 of this Paragraph, .the disposal of any materials regulated by this Regulation is prohibited from fixed or floating plat­ forms . engaged in the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated off-shore processing of sea-bed mineral re­ sources, and all other ships when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms.
2. The disposal into the sea of food wastes may be
permitted when they have passed through a comminuter
or grinder from such fixed or floating platforms located
more than 12 nautical miles from land and all other ships
when alongside or within 500 metres of such platforms.
Such comminuted or ground food wastes shall be capable
Paragraphs B and C of this Regulation shall not apply to :
a) the disposal of garbage from a ship necessary for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship and those on board or saving life at sea; or '
b) the escape of garbage resulting from damage to a ship or its equipment provided all reasonable precautions have been taken before and after the occurrence of
the damage, for the purpose of preventing or minimiz­ ing the escape; 6r •
c) the accidental loss of synthetic fishing nets or syn­ thetic material incidental to the repair of such nets, provided that all reasonable precautions have been taken to prevent such loss.
Each Contracting Party undertakes to ensure the pro­ vision of facilities at its ports and terminals of the Baltic Sea Area for the reception of garbage, without causing undue delay to ships, and according to the needs of the ships using them.
Appendix I List of Oils *)
Aromatic Oil (excluding vegetable oil) Lubricating Oils and Blending
•) The list of oHs shall not necessarily be considered a& comprehensive.*
Guidelines for the Categorization of Noxious Liquid Substances
Substances which are bioaccumulated and liable to
which are highly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 4, defined by a TLm less than 1 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are moderately toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 or more, but loss than 10 ppm) when particular weight is given to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics Of the substance .
Substances which arc bioaccumulated with a short retention of the order of one week or less: or which are liable to produce tainting of the -sea food ; or which are moderately toxic to acquatic life (as expressed by a Haz­ ard Rating 3, defined by a TLm of 1 ppm or more, but less than 10 ppm); and additionally certain substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of 10 ppm or more, but less than 100 ppm) when particular weight is given to additional factors in the hazard profile or to special characteristics of the substance.
Substances which are slightly toxic to aquatic life (as
expressed by a Hazard Rating 2, defined by a TLm of sind (ausgedrückt durch Gefahrenstufe 2, bezeichnet 10 or more, but less than 100 ppm); and additionally cer­ durch eine TLm von 10 oder mehr, aber weniger als tain substances which are practically non-toxic to aquatic 100 ppm) sowie bestimmte Stoffe, die praktisch ungiftig life (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1, defined by a für Wasserpflanzen und -tiere sind (ausgedrückt durch TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than 1.000 ppm) when Gefahrenstufe 1, bezeichnet durch eine TLm von . 100 particular weight is given to additional factors in the oder mehr, aber weniger als 1 000 ppm), Wenn zusätz­ hazard profile or to special characteristics of the sub­ lichen Faktoren im Gefahrenprofil oder besonderen stance.
Substances which are practically non-tpxic to aquatic
life , (as expressed by a Hazard Rating 1 , defined by a
TLm of 100 ppm or more, but less than- 1.000 ppm); or
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD); or highly hazardous to human health, with an LD30 of less than 5 mg/kg; or produce moderate reduction of amenities because of persistency, smell or poisonous or irritant characteristics, possibly interfering with use of beaches; or moderately hazardous to human health, with an LDjo of 5 mg/kg or more, but less than 50 mg/kg and produce slight reduc­ tion of amenities.
Other Liquid Substances (for the purposes of Paragraph C of Regulation 5)
Substances other than those categorized in Cate­ gories A, B, C, and Q above.
Acetic anhydride
Aminocthylethanolamine (Hydroxyethyl-ethy- lenediamine) *)
Calcium hydroxide (solution) Camphor oil
List of Noxious Liquid Substances carried in Bulk
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
- (Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
•) Asterisk Indicates that tho substance has been provisionally included In this list ani that further data are necessary In order to complete the evaluation of Us cnviionmcntal hazards, particularly in lelation to living resources.
l Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Caustic potash (Potassium hydroxide)
para-Cymene (Isopropyltoluene) •) Decahydronaphthalene
Dimethylethanolamine (2-Dimethylaminoethanol) *)
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
I II III IV Within
•) Asterisk indicates (hat the substance Has been provisionally included in this list and that further data are necessary in order to complete the evaluation of its environmental hazards, particularly in fetation to Kving resources.
the Bal tic Sea Area
Isopropyl cyclohexane Isoprene
Methyl acrylate Methylamy ! alcohol Methylene chloride 2-Methyl-5-Ethylpyridine *) Methyl methacrylate 2-Mothypentene *)
Ethylene chlorohydrin (2-Chloro-ethanol)
Heptanoic acid *) Hexamethylenediamine *)
Hydrofluoric acid (40 °/o aqueous) Hydrogen peroxide (greater than 60%) Isobutyl acrylate
Pollution Category for oper- ■
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (I) of
•) Asterisk Indicates that (he substance has been provisionally Included In this list and that further data are necessary In order to complete
the evaluation of its environmental hazards, paiticularly in relation to living resour^s. 36
I II III IV Within
the Baltic Sea Area
Phthalic Anhydride (molten) beta-Propiolactone *)
Propionic anhydride
n-Propylamine
D 1134 B Monoethanolamine D C c C C C A A C 'D C
the Baltic Sea Area
Naphthenic acids *)
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph D (1) of
•) Asterisk indicates (hat the substance has been provisionally Included In this list and that further data ar* necessary In order to complete the evaluation of Its environmental hazards, particularly in relatfon to living resources.
I II III IV Within
Xylenes (mixed isomers)
Tritolyl phosphate (Tricresyl phosphate) •) Turpentine (wood)
Pollution Category for oper­ ational discharge
(Paragraph B of
Residual concentration (per cent by weight)
(Paragraph 0(1 ) of
•) Asterisk Indicate# that the substance has been provisionally included In this Ii«t and that further data are oecessary Ih order to complete the evaluation ol Us environmental hazards, particularly in relation to living resources.
1 Η III IV Within
the Baltic Sen Area
Ammoniak (28°/o wasserhaltig) iso-Araylacetat
n-Butylacctat sec-Butylacetat n-Butylacrylat
para-Cymol (Isopropyltoluol) •) Decahydronaphthalin
Diäthylentriamin *) Diäthylenglycol-monoäthyläther Diäthylketon (3-Pentanon) Diisobutylen •)
Diisobùtylketon . Dnsopropanolamin Diisopropylamin
Diisopropylather *)
Dimethylamin (40°/i wasserhaltig) Dimethylâthanolamin (2-Dimethylaminoàthanol) *) Dimethylformamid
Äthylenglycol-monoäthyläther (Methylkolloidlôsung)
Isopropylcyclohexan
Monoäthanolamin D
Triàthylarain Triraethylbenzol •) Tritolylphosphat *)
(Trikresylphosphat) Terpentin (Holz) Vinylacetat Vinylidenchlorid •) Xylole (Isomerengemisch)
Decyl octyl alcohol Dibutyl ether Diethanolamine Diethylene glycol Dipentene
Heptene (mixed isomers)
List of olher Liquid Substances . carried in Bulk
Dlbutylâther Diäthanolamin
Cargo Record Books for Ships carrying Noxious Liquid Substances in Bulk
Name of ship .-.
Cargo carrying capacity of each tank in cubic metres
Voyage from
1. Date and place of loading ,
2. Name and category of cargo(es) loaded
3. Identity of tank(s) loaded
b) Transfer of cargo
4. Date of transfer
5. Identity of tank(s) (i) From (ii) To
7. If not, quantity remaining
c) Unloading of cargo
8. Date and place of unloading 9. Identity of tank(s) unloaded
11. If not, quantity remaining in tank(s)
12. Is (are) tank(s) to be cleaned? 13. Amount transferred to slop tank 14. Identity of slop tank -
d) Ballasting of cargo tanks
15. Identity of tank(s) ballasted
16. Date and position of ship a't start oj ballasting
17. Identity of tank(s) cleaned
18. Date and location of cleaning
19. Method(s) of cleaning
20. Location of reception facility used
21. Concentration of effluent when discharge to recep­ tion facility stopped
22. Quantity remaining in tank
23. Procedure and amount of wafer introduced into tank in final cleaning
24. Location , date of discharge into the sea
25. Procedure and^equipment used in discharge into the sea
Signature of Master 46
 Category B, C, and D substances
26. Washing procedure used
27. Quantity of water used
28. Date, location of discharge into the sea
29. Procedure and equipment used in discharge into the sea
f) Transfer of dirty ballast water
30. Identity of tank(s)
31. Date and position of ship at start of discharge into the sea
34. Quantity discharged into the sea
32. Date and position into the sea
of . ship
35. Quantity of polluted water transferred to slop tank(s) (identify slop'tanks(s))
36. Date and port of discharge'to reception facilities (if ppplicable)
g) Transfer from slop tank/disposal o! residue
37. Identity of slop tank(s) 37.
38. Quantity disposed from each tank 38.
39. Method of disposal of residue : 39.
(b) Mixed with cargo «
(c) Transferred to another (other) tank(s) (identify - tank(s))
(d) Other method
40. Date and port of disposal of residue
h) Accidental or other exceptional discharge
Date and time of occurrence
Place or position of ship at time of occurrence
Approximate quantity, name and category of substance
Circumstances of discharge or escape and g&neral rcroarks .
Signature of Master
 a) issue special permits provided for in Regulation 1 of this Annex;
b) keep records of the nature and quantities of matter permitted to be dumped and the location, time and method of dumping;
c) collect available information concerning the nature and quantities of matter that has been dumped in the Baltic Sea Area recently and up to the coming into force of the present Convention, provided that the
• dumped matter in question could be liable to cont­ aminate water or organisms jn the Baltic: Sea Area, to be caught by fishing equipment, or otherwise to give rise to harm , and the location , time and method of such dumping. .
2. The appropriate national' authority shall issue special permits in accordance with Regulation 1 of this Annex in respect of matter intended for dumping in the Baltic Sea Area:' "
a) loaded in its territory ;
Exceptions from the General Prohibition of Dumping of Waste and other Matter in the Baltic Sea Area
In accordance with Paragraph 2 of Article 9 of the present Convention the prohibition of dumping shall not apply lo the disposal at sea of dredged spoils provided that:
1. they do not contain significant quantities and concen­ trations of substances to be defined by the Commis­ sion and listed in Annexes I and II of the present Con­ vention ; and
2. the dumping is carried out under a prior special permit given by the appropriate national authority, either
a) within the area of the territorial sea of the Con­ tracting Party; or
b) outside the area of the territorial sea, whenever necessary, after prior consultations in the Com­ mission.
When issuing such permits the Contracting Party shall comply with the provisions in Regulation 3 of this Annex.
1. The appropriate national authority referred to in
tory or flying its flag, when the leading occurs in the territory of a State not Party to the present Conven­ tion.
3. When issuing permits under Sub-Paragraph 1 a)
with Regulation 3 of this Annex, together with such additional criteria, measures and requirements as they may consider relevant.
4. Each Contracting Party shall Teport to the Commis­ sion, and where appropriate to other Contracting Parties, the information specified in Sub-Paragraph 1 c) of Regu­ lation 2 of this Annex. The procedure to be followed and
" the nature of such reports shall be determined by the Commission.
When issuing special permits according to Regulation 1 of this Annex the appropriate national authority shall take into account:
!. Quantity of dredged spoils to be dumped.
2. The content of the matter referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention.
3. Location (e.g. co-ordinates of the dumping area, depth and distance from coast) and its relation to areas of special interest (e.g. amenity areas, spawning, nursery and fishing areas, etc.).
4. Water characteristics, if dumping is carried out out­ side the territorial sea, consisting of:
a) hydrographic properties (e. g. temperature, salinity, density, profile);
b) chemical properties (e.g. pH, dissolved oxygen, nutrients); .
c) biological properties (e. g. primary production and benthic animals).
The data should include sufficient information on the annual mean levels and the seasonal vaiiation of the properties mentioned in this Paragraph.
5. The existence and effects of other dumping which 5. Vorhandensein und Auswirkung sonstigen Einbrin-
may have been carried out in the dumping area.
Reports made in accordance with Paragraph 5 of Article 9 of the present Convention shall include the
following information :
material, and counter measures taken:
a) location (e. g. co-ordinates of the accidental dump­ ing site, depth and distance from'the coast);
b) method of deposit;
.c) quantity and composition of dumped matter as well as its physical (c. g. solubility and density), chemi­ cal and biochemical * e. g. oxygen demand, nutrients), and biological properties (e. g. presence
of viruses, bacteria, yeasts, parasites);
d) toxicity ;
e) content of the substances referred to in Annexes I and II of the present Convention ;
f) dispersal characteristics (e. g. effects of currents and wind, and horizontal transport and vertical mixing);
g) water characteristics (e. g. temperature, pH, redox conditions, salinity and stratification);
h) bottom characteristics (e. g. topogt&phy, geological characteristics and redox conditions);
i) counter measures taken and follow-up operations carried out or planned.
2. General considerations and conditions:
a) possible effects oil amenities (e. g. floating or stranded material, turbidity, objectionable odour, discolouration and foaming); .
 b) possible effect on marine life, fish and shellfish culture, fish stocks and fisheries, seaweed harvest­ ing and cultures; and
c) possible effects on other uses of the sea (e.g. impairment of water quality for industrial use, underwater corrosion of structures, interference with ship operations from floating materials, inter­ ference with fishing or navigation and protection of areas of special importance for scientific or conservation purposes),,.
For the purposes of this Annex:
operating in the marine environment and includes hydrofoil boats, air-cushion vehicles, submersibles, floating craft and fixed or floating platforms.
2. "Administration" means the Government of the State under whose authority the ship is operating. With respect to a ship entitled to fly a flag of any Slate, the Administration is the Government of that State. With respect to fixed or floating platforms engaged in exploration and exploitation of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof adjacent to the .coast over which the coastal State exercises sovereign rights for the purposes of exploration and exploitation of their natural resources, the Administration is the Government of the coastal
3. a) "Discharge", in relation to harmful substances or effluents containing such substances, means any ' release howsoever caused from a ship and in­ cludes any escape, disposal, spilling, leaking, pump­
ing, emitting or emptying. "Discharge" does not include:
(i) dumping within the meaning of the Conven­ tion on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter done at London on 29 December 1972; or
(ii) release of harmful substances directly arising from the exploration , exploitation and as­ sociated offshore processing of sea-bed mineral resources; or
(iii) release of harmful substances for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abatement or control.
The Contracting Parlies undertake to maintain ability to combat spillages of oil and other harmful substances on the sea. This ability shall include adequate equip­ ment, ships and manpower prepared for operations in coastal waters as well as on the high sea.
The Contracting Parties shall, without prejudice to Paragraph 4 of Article 4 of the present Convention, devel­ op and apply , individually or in co-operation , surveillance activities covering the Baltic Sea Area ,. in order to spot and monitor oil and other harmful substances released into the sea.
In the case of loss overboard of harmful substances in packages, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons, tBe Contracting Parties shall co-operate in the salvage and recovery of such packages, containers
or tanks so as to minimize the danger to the environ­ ment.
1. The Contracting Parties shall develop ami apply a system for receiving, channeling and dispatching reports 011 significant spillages of oil 01 other harmful substances observed at sea, as well as any incident causing or likely to cause any kind of significant pollution.
2. The Contracting Parties shall request masters of ships and pilots of aircraft to report without delay in accordance with this system on significant spillages of oil or other harmful substances observed at sea. Such reports should as far as possible contain the following data : time , position , wind and sea conditions , and kind , extent and probable source of the spill observed.
3. The master of a ship involved in an incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation, or other person having charge of the ship, shall without delay and to the fullest extent possible report in accordance with this system and with the provisions of the Appfendix to the present Annex.
4. Each- Contracting Party undertakes to issue instruc­ tions to its maritime inspection vessels and aircraft and to other appropriate services, to report to its authorities any observation or incident referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation. Such reports shall as far as possible contain the data referred to in Paragraphs 2 or 3 of this Regulation respectively, as well as possible indications on the spreading or drifting tendencies of the spill in question.
5. Whenever a Contracting Party is aware of a casualty or the presence of spillages of oil or other harmful substances in the Baltic Sea Area likely to constitute a serious threat to the marine environment of the Baltic Sea Area or the coast or related interests of any other Contracting Party, it shall without delay transmit all relevant information thereon to the Contracting Party which may be affected by the pollutant and, as regards ship casualty incidents, to the Administration of the ship involved .
■ Each Contracting Party shall request masters of ships flying its flag to provide, in case of an incident, on re­ quest by the proper authorities, such detailed informa­ tion about the ship and its cargo which ;-is relevant to actions for preventing or combatting pollution of the sea, and to co-operate with these authorities.
1. a) The Contracting Parties shall as soon as possible agree bilaterally or multilaterally on those regions of the Baltic Sea Area in which they will take action for combatting or salvage activities whenever a significant spillage of oil or other harmful substances or any in­ cidents causing or likely to cause pollution within the Baltic Sea Area have occurred or are likely to occur. Such agreements shall not prejudice any other agree­ ments concluded between Contracting Parties concerning the same subject. The neighbouring States shall ensure the harmonization of the different agreements. The Contracting Parties shall inform each other about such agreements.
The Contracting Parties may ask the Commission for assistance to reach agreement, if needed. *
 b) The Contracting Party within whose region a situation as described in Regulation 1 of this Annex occurs shall make the necessary assessments of the situation' and take adequate action in order to avoid or minimize subsequent pollution effects and shall keep drifting parts of the spillage under observation until no further action is called for.
2. In the case that such a spillage is drifting or is likely to drift into a region, where another Contracting Party should take action for purposes as defined in Sub-Paragraph 1 a) of this Regulation, that Party shall without delay be informed of the situation and the actions that have been taken.
A Contracting Party requiring assistance for combatting spillages of oil or other harmful substances, at sea is entitled to call for assistance by other Contracting Parties, starting with those who seem likely also to be affected by the spillage. Contracting Parties called upon for assistance in accordance with this Regulation shall use their best endeavours to bring such assistance. .
1. The Contracting Parties shall provide information to the other Contracting Parties and the Commission about
a) their national organization for dealing with spillages at sea of oil and other harmful substances;
. b) . national regulations and other matters which have a direct bearing on combatting pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances; *
dispatching reports of pollution at sea by oil and other harmful substances;
d) the competent authorities for dealing with questions concerning measures of mutual assistance, informa­ tion and co-operation between the Contracting Parties v>. - according to this Annex; •
e). actions taken in accordance with Regulation 8 of this . e) die nach Regel 8 getroffenen Maßnahmen. Annex. _ ,
2. The Contracting Parties shall exchange information of research and development programs and" resultsf con­ cerning ways in which pollution by oil and other harmful substances at sea may be dealt with and experiences in combatting such pollution.
The authorities referred to in Sub-Paragraph 1 d) of Regulation 9 of this Annex shall establish direct contact and co-operate in operational matters.
on Incidents Involving Harmful Substances
Duty to Report
1. The Master of a ship involved in an incident re­ ferred to in Regulation 3 of this Appendix, or other per­ son having charge of the ship, shall report the particulars of such incident without delay and to the fullest extent possible in accordance with the provisions of this Appendix .
2. In the event of the ship referred to in Paragraph 1 of this Regulation being abandoned, or in the event of a report from such ship being incomplete or unobtainable, the owner, charterer, manager or operator of the ship, or their agents shall, to the fullest extent possible assume the obligations placed upon the Master under the provi­ sions of this Appendix.
1. Each report shall be made by radio whenever possible, but in any case by the fastest, channels avail­ able at the time the report is made. Reports made by radio shall be given the highest possible priority.
tion 9 of Annex VI of the- present Convention.
When to Make Reports
The report shall be made whenever an incident in­ volves :
a) a discharge other than as permitted under the present Convention; or
b) a discharge permitted under, the present Convention by virtue of the fact that:
(i) it is for the purpose of securing the safety of a ship or saving life at sea; or ...
(ii) it results from damage to the ship or its equip­ ment; or
c) a discharge of a harmful substance for the purpose of combatting s specific pollution incident or for purposes of legitimate scientific research into pollution abate­ ment or control ; or
d) the probability of a discharge referred to in Sub- Paragraph a), b), or c) of this Regulation...
Contents of Report .
a) the identity of ship;
b) the time and date of the occurrence of the incident;
c) the geographic position of the ship when the incideift occurred ;
2. Reports shall be directed to the appropriate officer
 <l) the wind and sea conditions prevailing at the time of d) - the incident; and
-c) relevant details respecting the condition of the ship.
2. Each report shall contain, in particular:
a) a clear indication or description of the harmful substances involved , including , if possible , the correct -technical names of such substances (trade names should not be used in place of the correct technical
. b) a statement or estimate of the quantities, concentra­ tions and likely conditions of harmful substances discharged or likely to be discharged into the sea;
c) where relevant, a description of the packaging and identifying marks; and
d) if possible the name of the consignor, consignee or manufacturer. . *
3. Each Teport shall clearly indicate whether the harm­ ful substance discharged , or likely to be discharged is oil , a noxious liquid substance, a noxious solid substance, or–a noxious gaseous substance and whether such
' substance was or is carried in bulk or contained in packaged form, freight containers, portable tanks, or road and rail tank wagons.
4. Each report shall be supplemented as necessary by any other relevant information requested by a recipient of the Teport or which the person sending the report deems appropriate.
Any person who is obliged under the provisions of this Appendix to send a report shall, when possible:
a) supplement the initial report, as necessary, with in- formation concerning further developments; and
b) comply as fully as possible with requests from affect- ed States for additional information concerning the incident.
