In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
3. Title of the tariff measure :
Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) opening, allocating and providing for the administration of tariff quotas for certain types of paper and paperboard of subheadings ex 48.01 C II and 48.01 pof the Common Customs Tariff originating in Portugiaal (1978)
Execution of contractual obligation
Method of calculation :
- No of CCT
- Quota duty rate - Duty rate CCT
Loss of receipts :
- 680,000 EUR to 1,120,000 EUR, according to the use of the quota (ex 48.01 C II)
- 15,000 EUR to 62,000 EUR, according to the use of the quota C 48.01 £>
This document contains a draft for a Council Regulation opening tariff quotas at reduced duty rates for 1978 for certain paper goods originating in Portugal.
This tariff measure is provided for in the Interim Agreement EEC/Portugal of 1976.
1. On 20 September 1976 the European Economic Community signed an Interim Agreement with the Portuguese Republic. Article 4 of the Agreement
stipulates'that for kraft paper and kraft board for wrapping, known
as "kraftliner", and for paper and paperboard, other, of tariff subheadings ex 48.01 C II and 48.01 originating in Portugal, the . Community, as originally constituted, and Ireland, shall open, for the period from 1 January 1976 to 31 December 1983, annual zero-duty tariff quotas of 42 000 tonnes and 1 500 tonnes respectively. These quotas should
beincreasedyearlyby5%. Thetariffquotasfor1978shouldnowbeopened.
2. The draft regulation opening the tariff quotas provides - as is the rule in this field - for each quota volume to be divided into two installments, the first being allocated among the Member States in the form of quota shares and the second forming the reserve.
Concerning the allocation of the volume of the first instalment, the usual procedure should be applied, that is the proportion of the toteil imports
of each Member State over the last three years to Community imports over the same period is worked out and the resulting percentages are applied -
per Member State - to the volume of the first instalment.
3. The method of administration to be used by all the Member States is the "grey-hound-method".
4. The foregoing is the subject of the proposal for * regulation. ANNEX : 1 proposal for a Regulation (EEC) of the Council.
on the opening, allocation and administration of tariff quotas for certain types of paper and paperboard, falling within subheadings ex 48.01 C II and 48.01' CTof
the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Portugal (1978) «
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Article 4 of the Interim Agreement between
the European Economic Community and the Portu­
guese Republic (') lays down that the Community as
originally constituted and Ireland should open annual
duty-free tariff quotas for Kraftliner and for other
paper and paperboard falling within subheadings ex- 48.01 C II and 48.01 JPof the Common Customs
Tariff, originating in Portugal, of 42 000 and 1 500 metric tons respectively, which should be increased yearly by 5% as from 1 January 1977 ; whereas the tariff quotas concerned should be opened for 1978;
Whereas equal and uninterrupted access to the said quotas should be ensured for all Community impor­
ters and the rates of duty for these quotas should be applied consistently to all imports of the products in question into the Member States concerned until the quotas have been used up ; whereas, in the light of the principles outlined above, arrangements for the utiliza­ tion of the Community tariff quotas based on an allo­ cation among Member States would seem consistent with the Community nature of the quotas ; whereas, in order that it may correspond as closely as possible to the actual market trends in the products in ques­ tion, allocation of the quotas should be in proportion to the requirements of the Member States as calcu­ lated by reference to statistical data on imports of the said products from Portugal during a representative reference period and to the economic prospects for the quota period in question ;
Whereas, during the last three years for which statis­ tics are available, the corresponding imports into each of the Member States represent the following percen­ tages of total imports of the product in question, origi­ nating in Portugal :
Germany France Ireland Italy
 Whereas, in view of these factors and of market fore- casts for the products concerned during the quota period in question, the percentage shares in the quota volumei may be expressed roughly u follows :
For the period 1 January to 31 December 1975 duty-
free tariff quotas shall be opened in the Community
as originally constituted and Ireland for products origi­
nating in Portugal and within the limits shown below :
Ireland Italy
(in metric torts)
Whereas, in order to take account of future trends in imports of the products in question into the various Member States, each of the quotas should be divided into two tranches, the first to be allocated among all the Member States and the second to form a reserve intended to cover any subsequent requirements of Member States which have used up their initial shares ; whereas, in order to ensure a certain degree of security for importers in each Member State, the first tranche of the tariff quota should be set at a level which in this case might be 75 % of each of the' quota volumes ; .
Whereas Member States may use up their initial shares at different rates ; whereas, to provide for this eventuality and to avoid disruption of supplies, any Member State which has almost used up any of its initial shares should drawn an additional share from the corresponding reserve ; whereas this should be done by each Member State when each of its addi­ tional shares has been almost used up, as many times as the reserve allows ; whereas each of the initial and additional shares should be valid until the end of the quota period ; whereas this form of administration requires close collaboration between Member States and the Commission, in which the latter must, in particular, be able to keep a record of the extent to which the quota has been used up and inform the Member States accordingly ;
Whereas, if at a given date in the quota period a considerable quantity of a Member State's initial share remains unused, it is essential that that Member State should return a significant proportion to the corres­ ponding reserve, so as to avoid a part of any of the tariff quotas remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others ;
Whereas , since the Kingdom of Belgium , the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united within and jointly represented by the Benelux Economic Union , any measure concerning the administration of the shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any one of its members,
Description of goods
C. Kraft paper and kraft board :
ex II. Other :
J?Other /
Germany France Ireland Italy
(in metric tons)
wadding), machine-made, in rolls or sheets :
1. The tariff quotas laid down in Article 1 shall be divided into two tranches.
2. A first tranche of each quota, i.e. 34 730 and 1 240 metric tons
respectively, shall be allocated among the Member States ; the shares, which subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December 1978> shall be as follows :
The second tranche of each quota, i.e. 11 575
and 41 3 metric tons respectively, shall constitute the corresponding reserve.
1. If 90% or more of any of a Member State's initial shares – as fixed in Article 2 (2) – or of that share minus any portion returned to the corres­ ponding reserve, where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, that Member State shall forthwith, by
 notifying the Commission, draw a second share, to the extent that the reserve so permits, equal to 15 % of its initial share, rounded off upwards to the next whole number, if necessary.
2. If, after any of its initial shares has been used up, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 and to the extent that the reserve so permits, draw a third share equal to 7-5 % of its initial share, rounded off upwards to the next whole number, if necessary.
3. If, after any of its second shares has been used up, 90 % or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This procedure shall apply until the reserve is used up.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may draw shares less than those specified therein if there are grounds for believing that those specified may not be fully used up. They shall inform the Commission of their reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1978
Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 October 1978,^6 unused portions of their
initial shares which, on 15 September 1973 are in excess of 20 % of the initial amounts. They may return a greater portion if there are grounds for believing that such portion may not be fully used up.
Member States shall notify the Commission, not later than ' 1 October 1978 , of the total quantities of the product in question imported up to and including 15 September 1978 and charged against the tariff quotas and of any portion of their initial shares returned to the reserves.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and 3 tnd, at toon as it has been notified, shall inform each State of the extent to which the reserves have , been used up.
It shall inform the Member States, not later than 5 October 197g of the status of each of the reserves after amounts (lave been returned thereto- pursuant to Article 5.
It shall ensure that the drawing which exhausts any of the reserves does not exceed the balance available and, to this end, notify the amount of that balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
1 .- Member States shall take all
measures to ensure that additional shares drawn
pusuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their aggregate shares of the tariff quota.
2. Member States shall ensure that importers of the
product in question established in their territory have .free access to the shares allocated to them.
3. The Member States shall charge the imports of the products concerned against their shares as ancf when the goods are entered for home use .
4. The extent to which a Member State has used up its shares shall be determined on the basis of the imports charged under the conditions stipulated in paragraph 3.
At the Commissions request, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares .
Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1978 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council The President
PI'SIKB Irland «
Irland 5,8
Duitsland 24,8
lerland 2,9 6.7
ex II . ander :
E ander
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
opening, allocating and providing for the administration
of tariff quotas for certain types of-paper and paperboard of sub
headings ex 48.01 C II and 48.01 F>of the Common Customs Tariff originating in Portugal (1978 )°
(submitted to the Council "by the Commission)
COM(77)370 final. Brussels., 26 July 1977
 1. On 20 September 1.976 the Europsail Economic Community signed an Interim Agreement with the Portuguese Republic, Article 4 of the Agreement
stipulates " that for kraft paper and kraft "board for wrapping , known
as "kraftliner", and for paper and paperboard, other, of tariff
subheadings ex 48,01 0 II and 48.01 originating in Portugal , the . Community , as originally constituted , arid Ireland , shall open , for the period from 1 January 197^ 'to 31 December 1933, annual zero–duty tarsff quotas of 42 000 tb'v./=cs and 1 ^00 tonnes respectively^ "ihsse quotas should
be increased year!/ by 5 %. The tariff quotas for 1972 should now be opened*
2. The draft regulation opening the tariff quotas provides - as is the rule in this field ~ for each quota volume to be divided into two instalments, the first being allocated among the Member States in the form of quota shares and the second forming the reserve.
Concerning the allocation of the volume of th8 first instalment, the usual procedure should be applied, that is the proportion of the total imports
of each Member State over the last three years to Community imports over the same period is woi-ked out ajnd the' resulting percentages are applied –
per Member State – to the vo'lumo of the first instalment.
ewLod of edminis»tiation to be used by all the Member States is the "grey-fcund-jnethod". •
4. me foregoing ia the subject of the proposal for a regulation. A gX : 1 proposal for a regulation (EEC) of the Council.
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No / 77 of
on the opening, allocation and administration of tariff quotas for certain types of paper and paperboard, failing within subheadings ex 48.01 C II and 48.01' k.of
the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Portugal (1978) I
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Article 4 of the Interim Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Portu­ guese Republic (') lays down that the Community as originally constituted and Ireland should open annual duty-free tariff quotas for Kraftliner and for other paper and paperboard falling within subheadings ex- 48.01 C II and 48.01 p' of the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Portugal, of 42 000 and 1 500 "tonnes respectively, which should be increased yearly by 5% as from 1 January 1977 ; whereas the tariff quotas concerned should be opened for 1978;
Whereas equal and uninterrupted access to the said quotas should be ensured for all Community impor­
ters and the rates of duty for these quotas should be applied consistently to all imports of the products in question into the Member States concerned until the quotas have been used up ; whereas, in the light of the principles outlined above, arrangements for the utiliza­ tion of the Community tariff quotas based on an allo­ cation among Member States would seem consistent with the Community nature of the quotas ; whereas, in order that it may correspond as closely as possible to the actual market trends in the products in ques­ tion, allocation of the quotas should be in proportion to the requirements of the Member States as calcu­ lated by reference to statistical data on imports of the said products from Portugal during a representative reference period and to the economic prospects for the quota period in question ;
Whereas, during the last three years for which statis­ tics are available, the corresponding imports into each of the Member States represent the following percen­ tages of total imports of the product in question, origi­ nating in Portugal :
Germany France Ire and Italy
 Whereas, in view of these factors and of market fore­ casts for the products concerned during the quota period in question, the percentage shares in the quota volumes may be expressed roughly as follows ;
For the period 1 January to 31 December 1935 duty- free tariff quotas shall be opened in the Community as originally constituted and Ireland for products origi­ nating in Portugal and within the limits shown below :
Ireland Italy
Whereas, in order to take account of future trends in imports of the products in question into the various
Member States, each of the quotas should be divided into two tranches, the first to be allocated among all the Member States and the second to form a reserve
intended to cover any subsequent requirements of Member States which have used up their initial shares ; whereas, in order to ensure a certain degree of security for importers in each Member State, the first tranche of the tariff quota should be set at a level which in this case might be 75 % of each of the' quota volumes ; .
Whereas Member States may use up their initial shares at different rates ; whereas, to provide for this eventuality and to avoid disruption of supplies, any Member State which has almost used up.any of its initial shares should drawn an additional share from the corresponding reserve ; whereas this should be done by each Member State when each of its addi­ tional shares has been almost used up, as many times as the reserve allows ; whereas each of the initial and additional shares should be valid until the end of the quota period ; whereas this form of administration requires close collaboration between Member States and the Commission, in which the latter must, in particular, be able to keep a record of the extent to which the quota has been used up and inform the Member States accordingly ;
Whereas, if at a given date in the quota period a considerable quantity of a Member State's initial share remains unused, it is essential that that Member State should return a significant proportion to the corres­ ponding reserve, so as to avoid a part of any of the tariff quotas remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others ;
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united within and jointly represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any measure concerning the administration of the shares allocated
to that economic union may be carried out by any one of its members,
Description of goods
rolls or sheets :
C. Kraft paper and kraft board :
ex II. Other :
pTOther
(in metric tons)
The tariff quotas laid down in Article 1 shall be 2. A first tranche of each quota, i.e.
34 730 and 1 240 tonnes
respectively, shall be allocated among the Member States ; the shares, which subject to Article 5 Shall be valid until 31 December 197$ shall be is follows :
divided into two tranches.
France I Ireland
paperboard cellulose wadding), machine-made, in
3. The second tranche of each quota, i.e. Tj 575 and 413 tonnes respectively, shall constitute the corresponding reserve.
If 90 % or more of any of a Member State's
initial shares – as fixed in Article 2 (2) – or of th.it share minus any portion returned to the corres­ ponding reserve, where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, that Member State shall forthwith, by
 notifying the Commission, draw a second share, to the extent that the reserve so permits, equal to 15 % of its initial share, rounded off upwards to the next whole number, if necessary.
2. If, after any of its initial shares has been used up, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 and to the extent that the reserve so permits, draw a third share equal to 7-5 % of its initial share, rounded off upwards to the next whole number, if necessary.
3. If, after any of its second shares has been used up, 90 % or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This procedure shall apply until the reserve is used up.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may draw shares less than those specified therein if there are grounds for believing that those specified may not be fully used up. They shall inform the Commission of their reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1978. '
Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 October 1978 , the unused portions of their
initial shares which, on 15 September 197g are in excess of 20 % of the initial amounts. They may return a greater portion if there are grounds for believing that such portion may not be fully used up.
Member States shall notify the Commission, not later than 1 October 1978 , of the total quantities of the product in question imported up to and including 15 September 1978 and charged against the tariff quotas and of any portion of their initial shares returned to the reserves.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares
opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and 3 and, qb soon a& it has been notified, shall inform' each State of the extent to which the reserves have
been used up.
It shall inform the Member States, not later than 5
October 197& of the status of each of the reserves after amounts fiave been returned thereto* pursuant to
It shall ensure that the drawing which exhausts any of the reserves does not exceed the balance available and, to this end, notify the amount of that balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
1. Member States ihall take all appropriate measures to ensure that additional shares drawn pusuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their aggregate shares of the tariff quota.
2. Member States shall ensure that importers of the
product in question established in their territory have .free access to the shares allocated to them.
3. The' Member States shall charge the imports
of the products concerned against their shares : as and:"when .the goods are entered for home use.
'4. The extent to which a Member State has used up its shares shall be determined on tne basis
of the imports charged under the conditions stipulated in paragraph 3.
This Regulation shall be binding in its enti'ety and directly applicable in all Member States .
At the Commission's request, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
i This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January *' 1978. ' .
For the Council The President
3. Title of the tariff measure :
Execution of contractual obligation
Method of calculation :
Proposal for a Council. Regulation ( EEC) opening , allocating and providing for the administration of tariff quotas for certain types of paper and paperboard of subheadings ex 48.01 C II and 48.01 ^of the Common Customs Tariff originating in Portug&aal ( 1978)
- No of CCT : - Quota volume :
- Quota duty rate ? - Duty rate CCT ;
Loss of receipts :
680,000 EUR to 1,120,000 EUR, according to the use of the quota (ex 48.01 C II)
15,000 EUR to 62,000 EUR, according to the use of the quota ( 48.01 p
Tyskland 24,8
Frankng Irland Italien
Mind J,g lp
Frankrig Irland Italien
