In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
la Paragraphe e
2a Pan-Trnnhe fZ
Coordination of the positions of Member States in view of the
12th meeting of the Commission
of Codex Alimentarius and Annex
B (step 5) "t° "the Code of Hygienic
Practice for processed meat products
(Communication from Mr CfUNDELACH to the Commission)
 Explanatory Note to the Commission
12th meeting of the Commission of Codex Alimentarius and Annex
B (step 5) "to "the Code of Hygienic Practice for processed meat products.
In its letter of March 1977 (CI 1977/8 PMP) the joint FAO/WHO secretariat to the Codex Alimentarius requests in paragraph 3 comments in relation to Annex B of the Code of Hygienic Practic for prooessed meat products (doc. ref. CAC/RCP 12 1976 at step 5) with recommendation to omit steps 6 and 7» ^ is-necessary to coordinate the positions of Member States, taking account of and on the basis of the existing
Community legislation in this field .
L 26 of 31.1.77.
 Communication from the Commission to the Council
Subject* Coordination of the positions of Member States in view of the
12th meeting of the Commission of Codex Alimentarius and Annex B
(step 5) "to the Code of Hygienic practice for processed meat products.
In its letter of March 1977 (CI 1977/8 PMP) the joint FAO/WHO secretariat to the Codex Alimentarius requests in paragraph 3 comments in relation to Annex B of
the code of hygienic practice for processed meat products (doc.ref. CAC/RCP 12.1976 at step 5) with recommendation to omit steps 6 and 7*
It is necessary to coordinate the positions of Member States, taking account of and on the basis of the existing Community legislation in this field.*
The Commission has requested and studied comments received from Member States in relation to the documents involved and proposes that
- the annexed comments are forwarded by the Commission to the secretariat of the Codex Alimentarius
- the normal on-the-spot coordination takes place as necessary.
L 26 of 31.1.77
Subject: Comments of the European Economic Communities concerning Annex B to the Code of Hygienic Practice for processed meat products (CAC/RCP 12-1976)
In relation to the request of the joint secretariat "by document CL 1977/8 PMP of March 1977 "the Community submits the following comments in relation to the above document.
As requirements relating to potable water are already covered "by 28 d in the basic code, the lafifcsentence is superfluous and should be deleted.
Meat products intended for sale in pre-packed form having been sliced or cut are more hygienically handled if wrapped in the same room as they are sliced orcut. TheCommunitythereforeadvisesthatthefirstsentenceismodified to read:
"Wrapping of meat products preserved by heat treatment should be carried out without delay in a separate room; however, slicing or cutting and wrapping of meat products intended for sale in pre-packed form may take place in the same room when satisfactory hygienic conditions are ensured."
This paragraph is not clear. The following modification is advised:
"Wrapped open-pack meat products requiring refrigeration should be stored in chilled accommodation used only for meat products and in such a way that contamination is kept to a minimum."
Para.Trnnhe e
Coordination of the position of Member States in view of the 12th meeting of the Commission of Codex Alimentarius and Annex B (step 5) "to the Code of Hygienic Practice for processed
 Communication from "the Commission to the Council
Subject : Coordination of the positions of Member States in view of the
12th meeting of the Commission of Codex Alimentarius and Annex B
(step 5) "to the Code of Hygienic practice for processed meat products.
In its letter of March 1977 (CI 1977/8 PMP) the joint FAO/WHO secretariat to the Codex Alimentarius requests in paragraph 3 comments in relation to Annex B of
the code of hygienic practice for processed meat products (doc.ref. CAC/RCP 12.1976 at step 5) with recommendation to omit steps 6 and f.
It is necessary to coordinate the positipns of Member States, taking account of and on the "basis of the existing Community legislation in this field.*
The Commission has requested and studied comments received from Member States in relation to the documents involved and proposes that
- the annexed comments are forwarded by the Commission to the secretariat of the *
- the normal on-the-spot coordination takes place as necessary.
OJ L 26 of 31.1.77
In relation to the request of the joint secretariat "by document CL 1977/ 8 PMP of March 1977 "the Community submits the following comments in relation to the above document .
As requirements relating to portable water are already covered by 28 d in the basic code , the last sentence is superfluous and should be deleted .
■ Subject : Comments of the European Economio Communities concerning Annex B to the Code of Hygienic Practice for processed meat products
Meat products intended for sale in pre-packed form having been sliced or cut are more hygienically handled if wrapped in the same room as they are sliced or cut. The Community therefore advises that the first sentence is modified to read :
"Wrapping of meat products preserved by heat treatment should be carried out without delay in a separate room;v however, slicing or cutting and wrapping of meat products intended for sale in pre-packed form may take place in the
same room when satisfactory hygienic conditions are ensured."
This paragraph is not clear . The following modification is advised : "Wrapped open-pack meat products requiring refrigeration should be stored in
chilled accommodation used only for meat products and in such a way that contamination is kept to a minimum."
Code of Hygienic Practice for Processed meat products
Code of Hygienic Practice for processed meat products (CAC/RCP 12-1976)
meat products requiring refrigeration should be stored in chilled accomodation used only for meat products and in such a way that contamination is kept to a minimum .
