In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
2 « Second officier mécanicien
3 . Troisième officier mécanicien
Council Directive on minimum conditions required of certain tankers entering or leaving Community seaports
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 8^(2) thereof,
Having regard to the Commission's draft, ^ Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas the European Council on 7/8 A}?ril 1978 declared that the Community inust make it a major object to prevent and combat marine pollution, in particular by hydrocarbons, and whereas the European Council on 6/7 July 1978 reaffirmed the need to intensify action to prevent and combat marine pollution, particularly by hydrocarbons, and in addition considered it necessary, having regard to the proposals from various Member States and from the Commission, that further measures be taken to increase the safety of seaborne traffic ;
Whereas, to reduce the risk of incidents involving tankers entering or leaving Member States' ports, the said tankers should be required to satisfy in advance certain minimum conditions before entering and while traversing the territorial waters adjacent to the port of destination or departure;
Whereas the competent authorities should be informed of any shortcoming potentially deleterious to safety, and whereas a Member State where the competent authorities are informed of circumstances involving or increasing the risk to another Member State of its
sea and coastal areas' being endangered should inform that Member State forthwith;
Member States shall take all necessary and appropriate measures to ensure that oil, gas and chemical tankers of
1,600 gross registered tons and over - whether fully or partly- laden , and including those empty' but not yet purged of hazardous* gas residues - entering or leaving the seaports of their territory shall, as a minimum:
A* in good time before entering ,
(i) notify the competent authority of the Member State in which the port is situated of the following information
(a) name and call sign of the vessel? (b) nationality of the vessel;
(c) length and draught of the vessel;
(d) port of destination;
(e) estimated time of arrival at the port of destination or the pilot station, as required by the competent authority ;
(f) general information on the nature and quantity of cargo;
(g) where chemicals are being transported, information on whether or not the vessel is in possession of a
certificate verifying that it is a "new vessel" in
. the terms of the IMCO code for the construction and
equipment of ships carrying dangerous chemicals in bulk;
(h) whether or not there are any deficiencies and incidents which will decrease the normal safe manoeuvrability of the ship or which may . affect the safety and easy flow of traffic, or may constitute a hazard to the marine environment and adjacent areas.
complete truly and accurately a tanker check list as reproduced in the Annex to this Directive, and make it available to the pilot for his information , and , if it so requests , to the competent authority .
sailing in the territorial waters adjacent to the port of or departure ,
inform the competent authorities of any deficiencies and incidents which will decrease the normal safe
manoeuvrability of the ship or which may affect the safety and easy flow of traffic , or may constitute a hazard to the marine environment and adjacent areas;
as soon as possible establish radio-telephone communication with the designated shore stations, preferably on VHP -
in particular , with the nearest radar station , if available - and maintain such communication;
make use , as far as possible , especially in conditions of restricted visibility, of the services provided by radar stations ;
make use of pilots , in accordance with the practice and regulations determined by the competent authority.
If the pilot learns from the tanker check list or in some other way that there are any deficiencies which may prejudice the safe navigation of the vessel, he shall immediately report these to the competent authority.
Member States may derogate from paragraphs 1 and 2 where t^e state of the aids to navigation, the local situation or the
traffic conditions so require or permit# -•
Any Member State whose competent authorities . have been informed , in accordance with Article 1 or in some other way, of facts which involve or increase for another Member State the risk of posing a
hazard to certain maritime and coastal zones, shall take whatever measures are appropriate to inform the Member State concerned thereof as soon as possible.
Before 1 July 1979 Member States shall, after consulting the Commission, adopt the laws, regulations and administrative
provisions necessary to implement this Directive. They shall inform the Commissien and the other Member States of the measures taken as
well as of any provisions providing for derogations under Article 1(3).
This Directive is addressed to the Member -States .
Done at Brussels, For the Council
The President
 Shin's main particulars
Name of Ship
Kind of cargo loaded (according to tank loading plan)
Volume of cargo loaded
Port of regiatry
Character of classification Ship
Propulsionmachinery Output Agent
B. Safety installations aboard
1. Construction and technical equipment
Uain and auxiliary engines L!ain steering gear Auxiliary steering gear Anchor gear
Fixed fire-extinguishing systea
Standard magnetic compass
Other electronic position fixing aids
Radiotelegraphy installation Rodiotelephony installation (VHP)
valid certifioate on board C. Safety Certificates xes No
Classification Certificate Oil Liability Certificate Oil Record Boole completed
Officers and crew on board
1» Chief Mate 2m SecondMate 3. Third tlate
Total number of ratings Hlgh-eea pilot ■
Certificate of competency (detailed No description (and serial number))
(•) Member States may^ ecide not to lnolude the certificates section in the check list*
Si&iature of master or deputy
2 . Second officier mécanicien
Onderoeheidinconummers of »letters
(Submitted by the Commission to the Council)
Council Directive oa minimum conditions required, of certain , tankers entering or leaving Community seaports
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Co-munity, and in particular Article 8^(2) thereof,
Having regard to the Commission's draft,
Having regard to the opinion of. the European Parliament,
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas the European Council on 7/8 A^pril 1978 declared, that the Community bust make it a major object to prevent and combat marine . pollution, in particular by hydrocarbons, and whereas the European Council on 6/7 July 1978 reaffirmed the need to intensify action to prevent and combat marine pollution, .particularly by hydrocarbons, and in addition considered it necessary, having regard to the proposals from various Member States and from the Commission, that further measures be taken. to increase the safety of seaborne -traffic
Whereas, to reduce the risk of incidents involving tankers entering or leaving Member States' parts , the said tankers should be . required to satisfy in advance certain minimum conditions before entering and while traversing the territorial waters adjacent to the port of destination or departure; ■ \ ' - . :
Whereas the competent authorities should be informed of any shortcoming potentially deleterious to safety, and whereas a Member State where the competent authorities are informed of. circumstances involving or increasing the risk to another Member State of its
sea and coastal areas' being endangered should inform that' Member State forthwith; .
1© Member States shall take all necessary and appropriate ; _ ^ ' measures to ensure that oil, gas and chemical tankers of
1y600 gross registered tons and over – whether fully or partly' ladon? and including those empty' but not yet purged of hasar&our;-* gas residues - entering or leaving the seaports of their 'territory
shall, as, a minimum: . • _ Ao in good time before entering, -
(i) notify the competent authority of the Keaeer State in which the port is situated- of the following information
(a; name end call sign of the.vessel? (b)'nationality of the vessel;
(c) length and draught of, the. vessel; (d) port of destination; ■
(a) estimated time of arrival at the port of destination erthepilot. station, asrequired"bythecompetent authorityj
(f) general inforraation^ on' the nature and quantity of cargo
(g). :where cnemicals are being transports&s • information on whether, -or not the vessel is in possession of a • '
certificate verifying that it is a "new vessel'-1 in
, the terms of the IMCO code for the construction and *
eouinment of ships carrying dangerous chemicals in bulk *
(h) whether or not 4?here sre any deficiencies and .incidents which will decrease , the normal safe raancjir^rabIIity of
the ship or which may»affect the safety and easy flow , oftraffic., ormayconstituteahazardtothemarine
environment and adjacent areas*
B. while entry
complete truly and accurately a tankei* check list as reproduced in the Annex to this Directive, and make it available to the pilot for his information , and , if it so requests , to the competent authority * v
- 'W sailing in the territorial waters adjacent to the port of
inform the competent authorities of any deficiencies and incidents which will decrease the normal safe
manoeuvrability of the ship or which rray affect the safety and easy' flow of traffic, or may constitute a hazardto the marine environment and adjacent areas;
as soon as possible establish radio-telephone communication with the designated shore stations, preferably on VHF –
in particular , with the nearest radar station , if available - and maintain such communication;
make use , as far as possible , especially in conditions of restricted visibility, of the services provided by radar stations ;
make use of pilots, in accordance with the practise and regulations determined by the competent authority.
If the pilot learns from the tanker check list or in some other way that there are any deficiencies which may prejudice the
safe navigation of the vessel, he shall immediately report these t the competent authority .
Member States may derogate from paragraphs 1 and 2 where the state of the aids to navigation, the local situation or the
traffic' conditions so require or permit# -*
Any Member State whose competent authorities . have "been informed , in accordance with Article 1 or in some other way, of facts which involve or increase for another Member State the risk of posing a
hazard to certain maritime and coastal zones, shall take whatever measures are appropriate to inform the Member State concerned thereof as soon as possible.
Before 1 July, 1979 Member States shall, after consulting the Commission, adopt the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to implement this Directive. They shall inform the Commission and the other Member States of the measures taken as
well as of any provisions providing for derogations under Article 1(3)•
This Directive xs addressed to the Member -States . -
Done at Brussels, For the Covmcil
The President .
 Xm Ship's main particulars
Naae of Ship 71ag "
Port of regiatry Classification eocioty Character of cloaolfication
Kind ofVcargo loaded (according to tan* loading plan)
3. Safety installations aboard
1# Con3tructio/i and tochrical oquipment
Kain and auxiliary engines Kain steering gesx Auxiliary steering gear
. Fixed fire-extinguishing systea
Other electronic position fixing aids
Classification Certificate x Oil Liability Certificate
Officero and crew on board
1* Chiof Mate 2# Sscozid lïate 3. Third Hats
Total ttwibo? of ratli^jo
Aft , ' . - • Volune of cargo loaded
No description (and serial number))
Name , place , country of issuing □ authority (»)
) w«atej &7>y«,£ecido no-* to include the certificates section in the check list*
of competency
iQassxfikatioriscertifikat 0li oanavaracertifikat
Udfyldt oliejournal D. BesatninjE oa bord
