In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
3 Quota year
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
11 Quantity (1) Quantité (1)
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above have been charged against the quantitative limit established for the year shown in box No 3 in respect of the category shown in box No 4 by the provisions regulating trade in textile products with the European Economic Community.
14 Compétent authonty (name, full address. country)
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
tt Quantity (1) Quantité (1)
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
Woven fabrics of cotton, other than gauze,
terry fabrics, narrow woven fabrics, pile'
fabrics, chenille fabrics, tulle and other net fabrics
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of synthetic fibres (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow
Code.B1MEXE I Tabla of aguívalence
woven fabrics, pile fabrics (including terry fabrics) and'chenille fabrics
of* which other than unbleached or bleached
Shirts , T-shirts , lightweight roll or turtle
neck pullovers , undervests and' the
knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor
rubberised , other than babies' garments ,
of cotton or synthetic textile fibres a) T-shirts etc
Shirts other than T-shirts Chandails , pull-overs , slip-overs ,
cardigans , bed-jackets and jumpers , knitted
twinsets , rubberised
Ken 's and boys' woven breeches , shorts and trousers (including slacks); women's, girls' and infants' woven trousers and slacks
Blouses and shirt-blouses , knitted or crocheted (not elastic nor rubberised), or woven, for women, girls and infants
Ken's and boys' shirts, woven
Tableau das éiqufvalences Table of ecUlvalence
Men 's and boys' coats of impregnated , coated , covered or laminated woven fabric
cotton terry fabrics ;
kitchen linen of woven cotton terry fabrics
Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised , impre­
Gloves , mittens and mitts , crocheted not elastic nor than those of category 10
knitted or rubberised ,
other
Stockings', * under stockings , socks , ankle-> # socks , sockettes and the likei , knitted (5r
crocheted , not elastic than women's stockings fibres
Men 's and boy 's underpants and briefs , women girls' and infants' (other than babies'), knickers and briefs , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised, of cotton or synthetic
Men's and boys' woven overcoats, raincoats and other coats , cloaks and capes , other than those of category 14 A
gnated or coated with artificial plastic
nor rubberised, other of synthetic textile
enduits ou
Tableau des équivalences Table of équivalence plècesAg gr/ pieca
Women's, girls' and infants' coats of
impregnated , coated , covered or laminated woven fabric
Women's, girls' and infants* woven overcoats , raincoats and other coats ,
cloaks and capes , jackets and blazers , other than garments of category 15 A
Men'-s and boys' woven suits (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces , which are ordered , packed", consigned and normally sold together)
Men 's and boys *
. jacjcets and
Men's and boys' woven under garments other than shirts.
Handkerchiefs of woven more than 15 EUA/kg
Parkas, ar.oraks, windcheaters and the like wnovpe.n »
Yarn of discontinuous or waste synthetic fibres, not put up for retail sale
Yarn of discontinuous or waste regenerated fibres, not put up for retail sale
Men's and boys' pyjamas, knitted or crocheted of cotton or of synthetic textile fibres . I
a) dont acrylique of which acrylic
Women's, girls* and infants' (other than babies' ) knitted or crocheted pyjamas and nightdresses , of cotton or synthetic fibres
î,'ilstu des équivalences T ble of équivalence
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than
babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted
Women's, girls' and infants', (other than babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted skirts , including divided skirts
Knitted or crocheted trousers (except shorts, other than babies'
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than babies' ) woven suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
Women's, girls' and infants' woven pyjamas and nightdresses
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than "babies' ) woven undergarments other than pyjamas and nightdresses
Brassieres , woven, knitted or crocheted
Tableau (tes équivalences Table of équivalence
[ Tableaudaséquivalences Table of équivalence
Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics (other than terry fabrics of cotton and
narrow woven fabrics)
Woven fabrics of strip or the like «of polyethylene or polypropylene , less than
3 m wide; woven sacks of such atrip or the like *
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of
polyethylene or polypropylene 3 ® or more wide
Woven fabrics of synthetic textile fibres (continuous), other than those for tyres
and those containing elastomeric yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (continuous) other than those for tyres and those containing elastomeric * yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile
fibres (discontinuous or waste) other, than
narrow woven fabrics , pile fabrics ψ
(including terry fabrics) and chenille fabrics
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Knitted or crocheted synthetic curtain fabrics including net curtain fabric
Woven table linen , toilet and kitchen linen other than of cotton terry fabric
Woven curtains (other than net curtains) and furnishing articles
Yarn of synthetic textile fibres ( continuous ) not put up for retail sale , other than non- textured single yarn untwisted or with a twist of not more than 50 turns per m
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres (continuous), not put up for retail sale-,'
other than single yarn of viscose rayon untwisted or with a twist of not more than
250 turns' pe'r m"and single non-textured ye.tn of any acetate
Yarn of man–made fibres "(continuous) put up for retail sale
.'oven fabrics of synthetic textile fibres (continuous), containing elastomeric yarn
[Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (continuous), containing elastomeric yarn
Carded, or combed sheep 's other fine animal hair
wool or [ I
Tableau das équivalences Table of équivalence
Yarn of carded sheep 's or lamb 's wool (woollen yarn ) or .of carded fine animal hair , not put up for retail sale
Yarn, of combed sheeo 's or lamb 's wool (viorsted yarn) or of combed fine animal hair,
not put up for retail sale
Yarii of sheep's or lamb's wool or of fine lanimal hair," put up for retail sale
Woven fabrics of sheep 's or lamb 's wool or of fine animal hair
Yarn of synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sale
Coton carde ou peigne . Carded or combed cotton
Regenerated textile. fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded or combed
Synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded or combed
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sale ■-
Carpets, carpetting and rugs, knotted (made up or not)
Woven, knitted or crocheted carpets , carpetiiig, rugs, mats and matting, and ' Kelem "Schumacks" and "Karamanie" rugs and the like
1made up or not); floor coverings of felt
Tablnu des équivalences Ttble of «ulvalence
knitted or crocheted fabrics ),
faites a la main hand made
width with otherwise )
the like ;
on both edges , other
than
and the like , not
embroidered, . in the piece, in strips or cut to !shape or size;
Chenille yarn (including flock, chenille yarn), gimpe'd yarn (other than metallised yarn and pimped horsehair yarn); braids and' ornamental trimmings in the piece ; tassels , pompons and the like;
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including
woven , knitted or crocheted fabricc ), figured ;
hand or mechanically made lace , in the or in motifs;
Embroidery , in the piece , in strips or motifs
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised, of synthetic textile fibres, containing elastofibres ; knitted or crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
Rachel lace and long-pile fabric (initation fur ), knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , of synthetic textile fibres
Knitted or crocheted fabrics, i:ot elastic nor
rubberised , other than those 38 A," 63 and 64
of categori.ec
Travelling rugs and blankets
Clothing accessories and other articles
( except garments ), knitted or crocheted , not elastic r.or rubberised; articles (other than
baching costumes), of knitted or crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
Babies' under garments of knitted or crocheted fabrics , not elastic nor rubberised
Women's girls' and infants' knitted or crocheted petticoats and slips , of synthetic textile fibre , other than babies' garments
Babies.' knitted outer garments
Track suits of knitted or crochetec^-fabric, not elastic nor rubberised .•
Women*sf girls1 and infants1 (other than babies') suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three- pieces which are ordered, packed, consigned and normally sold together)
of knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Tableau das équivalences Table of équivalence
Men's and boys' suits (including co­
ordinate suits consisting of two or three
pieces , which are ordered , packed ,
consigned and normally sold together) of
knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Men's and boys' woven industrial and occupational clothing; women's, girls' and infants', woven aprons , smock-overalls and other industrial and occupational clothing (whether or not also suitable for domestic use)'
Women's stockings of synthetic textile fibre -
Ken 's and boys'
wear and other
garments of categories 6, 14A, 14B, 16, 17i 21, 76 and 79
wbven bath robes , jackets and similar outer garments , except
similar. indoor wear and other outer garments except garments of categories 6, 7, 15A,
15B, 21, 26, 27, 29, 76, 79 and 80
Under garments , other than babies' , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised ,
of woolf fine animal hair or regenerated textile fibres
and infants' woven bath gowns , bed jackets and
Outer garments, knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , other than garrti^nts of categories 5, 7, 26, 27, 28, 71, 72, 73,
74 and 75
Shawls , scarves , mufflers , mantillas , and the like, other than knittec?- or crocheted
Ties , bow ties and cravats , other than knitted or crocheted
Corsets, corset–belts, suspender–belts, braces , suspenders , garters and the like
(including such articles of knitted or crocheted fabric), other than brassieres,
whether or not elastic
Made up accessories for articles of apparel (for example, dress shields, shoulder and other pads , belts , muffs , sleeve protectors ,
pockets), other than knitted or crocheted
Gloves , mittens , mitts , and sockettes , not being crocheted goods
stockings , knitted or
Handkerchiefs of woven cotton fabric of a value of more than 15 EUA/Kg
plaited or not
Twine , cordage , ropes and cables , of synthetic
Woven fabrics of man-made textile fibres and rubberised textile xroven fabrics, for tyres .
Sacks and' "bags , "of a kind used for the packing of goods , of woven fabric , other than made from polyethylene or polypropylene strip
Wadding and articles of wadding; textile flock and dust and mill neps
ou enduits, autres que les revêtements du Felt and articles of felt , whether or not
impregnated or coverings
coated ,
other than
Table of <quivalence
Bonded fibre fabrics , similar bonded yarn fabrics , and' articles of such fabrics ,
whether or not impregnated or coated, other than clothing and clothing accessories
Nets and netting made of twine, cordage or rope , and made up fishing nets of yarn , twine cordage or rope
Otherarticles:,made'fromyarn,twine, cordage, rope or-cables,- other than textile fabric^, articles made from such fabrics and articles
of category 97 »
Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous
substances, of a kind used for the outer covers of books and the like ; tracing cloth;
prepared painting canvas ; buckram and similar fabrics for hat foundations and
Textile fabrics impregnated , coatea , cy ered or laminated with preparations of cellulor.e derivatives or of other artificial plastic materials
Twine , coraage ropes and cables , plaited or not, other than of synthetic textile fibres
Linoleum and materials prepared on a textile base in a similar ranner to linoleum,whether or not cut to shape or of a kind used as floor coverings ; floor coverings consisting of a coating applied on a textile base, cut to shape or not
Rubberised textile fabrics other than rubberised knitted or crocheted goods, excluding fabrics for tyres
Textile fabrics , impregnated or coat-ed , othei thaai those of categories 99» 100, 102 and
103 ; painted canvas being theatrical scenery, studio backcloths or the . like
Elastic fabrics and trimmings (other than knitted or crocheted goods) consisting of textile materials combined with rubber & threads
Wicks, of woven, plaited or knitted textile materials , for lamps , stoves , lighters , . candles and the like ; tubular knitted gas-mpjitle fabric and incandescent ga3 mantles –
Woven tarpaulins , sails, awings
Table of équivalence
Textile hosepiping and similar tubing , with or without lining, armour or accessories of other materials
Transmission , conveyor or elevator belts belting, of textile material, whether or
not strengthened with metal or other material
Camping , gopds *. woven , o „her than pneumatic mattresses and tents '
Other made-up textile articles , woven, excluding those of categories 113 and 114
Floor cloths , dish cloths , dusters and the like other than knitted or crocheted
Textile fabrics and. textile articles of a kind commonly used in machinery, or. plant
8 Place and date of shiomsnt - Means of transport Lieu et date d embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above have been charged against the quantitative limit established for the year shown in box No 3 in respect of the category shown in box No 4 by the provisions regulating trade in textile products with the European Economic Community.
14 Compétent authority (name. full address, country)
3 Ounta yeat
6 Country of origin Pays (Torigins
7 Country of destination Pays dc destination
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen ds transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOÛDS
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic
14 Compétent authority (name, full address, country)
M>tid by WILHELM KOHLER VERLAQ, 4950 Mlfttfen 1, Postfach 1130, Briickenkopf 2• - f«dar»l Republlc of Germtfty
(Trän Van-Thinh)
( Trän Van-Thinh)
Twinsets , weder
AqufvaitmU! c/ . StbCA/kg
 Recommendation for a Council Regulation concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
1. By Decision of 19 October 1977 t the Council authorised the h
Commission to open negotiations with'"Macau with a view to the conclusion - ^ of an agreement on trade in textile products.
2. In accordance with that Council Decision, and in consultation with the Article 113 Committee, the Commission conducted negotiations with Macau
from 27 October to 13 December' 1977 •" 1
Following the negotiations , a draft Agreement was drawn up .
The draft Agreement:
(i) covers all MFA products of wool, cotton and man-made fibres originating in Macau*
(ii) call? for voluntary restraint, at agreed levels, on exports
to the Community of certain categories of products covered by the Agreement;
(iii) provides for a consultation procedure whereby voluntary restraint measures may be introduced for categories of products not. initially subject to limitation, where certain thresholds are exceeded;
(iv) establishes a double checking system for categories of products subject to limitation, and an origin control system for all categories covered
by the Agreement;
(v) includes a flexibility clause allowing the transfer of a certain percentage of the quotas from category to category, or from one year to another ;
(vi) in exchange for limitation, contains an undertaking by the
Community not to introduce further quantitative restrictions under Article XIX of the GATT or Article 3 of the MPA, or to measures having an effect equivalent
 The Heads of the Delegations- initialled the text of the draft Agreement on 13 December 1977»' having noted that it correctly
represented the results of the negotiations.
3. In order to ensure that the successful implementation of the Agreement should not be put at risk and to prevent a flood of exports preceding its
entry into force , the Community, following the conclusion of the negotiations , proposed to the -third countries that until such time as the Agreement entered into force both parties should apply its provisions on an autonomous basis
as from 1 January 1978* These provsions were put into effect for 1978 by Commission Regulation (EEC) Ntf 3019/77 of 30 December 1977# making the importation into the Community of textile products originating in certain , third countries subjeot to authorisation and quantitative limitation (l), as confirmed by Counoil Regulation (EEC) N® 265/78 of 7 February 1978 (2).
The Commission has laid before the Counoil a proposal for a regulation containing the definitive measures for the implementation of the Agreement
" by the Community.
4. The Commission considers that the draft Agreement embodies an arrange­ ment which is acceptable to the Community. It therefore recommends that the Counoil :
(i) approve the Agreement by adopting the regulation, the draft of which is annexed hereto;
(ii) pending approval of the Agreement, take the necessary desioions in connection with the signing thereof.
 Recommendation for a Council Regulation concerning the conolusion of the Agreement between the European Economifc Community and Macau
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Eoonomio Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the Recommendation from the Commission, »
Whereas the Agreement op trade in textile products negotiated between the European Economio Community and Macau should be approved, " .
The Agreement between the European Economio Community and Macau on trade in textile products, the text of which is annexed to this Regulation, is hereby approved on behalf of the Community.
The President of the Council shall give the notification provided for in Article 18 > of the Agreement.
The date of entry into force of the Agreement will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
«. This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and direotly appli­ cable in all Member States.
For the Council
The President
D12SI !' '« Fifl to promote , with & view to permanent cooperation ar.d in conditions prov. i r. every security for trade, the orderly ar.d equitable development of tt »il« in textile products between the European Ecor.omio Community
(her* i.'ifter referred to as "the Community") arid MACAU
RCC' to take the fullest poscible account of the tedious economic ar.d toci I problems at precent affectirp the textile industry in both importinf a-.d "r'.orti.ip c^u.rtries, and ii particular, to eliminate real risks of market dipt- t'.'Tio'.i oa tfys market of the Community ar.d disruption to the textile tra<»« if MACAU
HAVU.v. rtKOARD to the Arrangement refardiufl International Trade in Textile# (hero: after referred to as "the Ce:.eva Arrangement"), a-:d in particular
Arti' Jc 4 thereof; and *o the Protocol extending the said Arrangesev.t together with the Conclusion? adopted on 14 Deoomber 1977 by the .
Text lion Coranittee , .
HAVi IJLCIDED to oonolude this Agreement and to this end havs designated ao their Plenipotentiaries ,
1. The nnrtiea reco/Tii7,e and confirm that., subject to the nrovimnv-s of this Agreement and vrithout nrejudice to their rirhts oHi :i'v- under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade , the cond'ic- of tr,r,; r mutual trade in textile oroducts shall "be governed "by the nrovisior.n
of the Geneva Arrangement.
Tn repnect of the nroducts covered hv this .'■."•reement , t,r:e <:<rr-*v '• • undertakes not to introduce quantitative restrictions under Article
"<TX of the General A/rreerient on Tariffs snd Trade or Article 3 of the
3. Measures-having equivalent effect to quantitative restrictions on the importation into the Community of the •oroducts covered by this
Vroement shall be prohibited .
1. This Agreement shall apply to trade in textile products of cotton, wool and man-made fibres originating in Macau which are listed in Annex I.
2. The description and identification of the products covered
by this Agreement are based on the nomenclature of the Common •Customs Tariff and on the Nomenclature of Goods for the External
Trade Statistics of the Community and the Statistics of Trade between Member States (NIMEXE).
3. The origin of the products covered by this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the rules in force in the
The -procedures for control of the origin of the products referred to ab'ove are laid down in Protocol A#
Macau agrees for each calendar year to restrain its exports to the Community of the products described in Annex II to the limits set out therein.
Exports of textile products set out in Annex II shall "be subject to a double-checking system specified in Protocol A.
1* Imports into the Community 6f textile products covered by this Agreement shall not be subject to the Quantitative limits established
in Annex II , provided that they are declared to be for re-export outside the Community in the same state or after processing, under the administrative system of control set up fot this purpose within the Community.
However, the release for home use of products imported under the conditions referred to above shall be subject to the production of an export licence issued by the Macau authorities , and to proof of origin in accordance with the provisions of Protocol A*
2» Where the authorities in the Community ascertain that imports of textile products have been set off against a quantitative limit established under this Agreement, biifc that the products have subse­ quently been re-exported outside the Community, the authorities concerned shall inform the Macau authorities within four weeks of the quantities involved and authorize imports of identical quantities of the same products , which shall not be set off against the quanti­ tative limit established in Annex II for the eurrent or the following
1. In any Agreement year advance use of a portion of the truantita'1; limit established for the following Agreement year is authorize-: for each category of products un to 5?" of the quantitative limit for t r current Agreement year.
Amounts delivered in advance shall be deducted from the corres­ ponding quantitative limits etablished for the following A,freemen*. w-r,
Carryover to the corresponding cruantitative limit, for the ° Vr^ement year of amounts not used during any /V<-r<?orient. year is *ut> r~–
ri nod up to 5? of the quantitative limit for the current Arreem«n+. yor.
. Transfers in respect, of categories in Oroup T nay not be
. «IJRIV be made un to 5' * of the rnmnt.it at ive limit for t.he category \ • *Y't< transfer is made.
In the event that quantitative limits are etablished in ar~or- d.->-ce v;ith the procedure of Article 6 in respect of any category of rtrcun I other than categories /. , 5,6,7 and P. , the Parties STPP + O open consultations in accordance with the provisions of Article 1/. vit.h a view to reaching agreement on transfers in respect of those
Transfers into any category in Groups Tr,TTT,TV and v may be rr^e from any category or categories in Groups T,TT,JTI,IV and V
ur> to 5'/ of the quantitative limit for the category to which the transfer is made.
 /'. The table of equivalence applicable to the transfers referro:1 to above is given in Annex I to this Agreement.
5. The increase in any category of products resul hi n^ fron tl.c cumulative application of the nrovisions in paragraphs 1 ,? and 3> r»h«ve during an Agreement year shall not exceed 1*3 .
Prior notification shall be tfiven by the authorities of Macau • ri the event of recourse to the provisions of paragraphs 1,2 and
1. i-ixnorto ot textile products not listed In Annex CC to thi.:;
' rjouont may be made 3ubjoct to quantit:vtivo limits by Ilnc.-m on the conditions laid down in the follo\-rlng paragraphs.
2, i>.~ ere the Community finds, under the system of administrative control set up, that the level of imports of products in a given c-tegory not listed in Annex II originating in I-"-c*u exceed:*, in rH.."tion to the preceding year's total imports into the Community o,; products in that category, the following rates:
- for categories of products in Group I, 0.2,';
- for categories of products in Croup II, 1.2.C;
- for categories of products in Group III, IV or 7,
. t ji.V/* request the opening of consultations in accordance in.th the 'jociure described in Article 14 of this Agreement , with a vLev: 1c
siting agreement on an appropriate restraint level for the pro-.la.-;-J • category .
Atr.dLng a mutually satisfactory solution, II.ou undertake:;, from d te of notification of the request for consultations , to s -.spend
in* 1Lr.iit at the level indicated by the Community exports of products ' via category.in question to the Community or to the region or
.••j ;lons of the Community market specified by the Community.
Aio Community shall authorize the importation of products of t.o –if: category shipped from M'.c?.u before the date on v/hich the request : or consultations v;as submitted.
,. shouldthePartiesbeunableinthecourseofconsult.-ti.oristorc-v-i • !.ir,factory solution within the period specified in Article 1| o:' In.:
■.•ro.MMnt, the Community shall have the right to introduce n ou.-intlt: u /. at ir. annual level not lower than that reached by imports o;'
aro-juits of the category in question and referred to in the notific-vtIon of the requer.t for consultations.
 ihe annual level so fixed shall be revised upwards after consultations in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14» with a view to fulfilling the conditions set out in paragraph 2, should the trend of total imports into the Community of the products in question make this necessary.
5. The limits introduced under paragraph 2 or paragraph 4 may in no case be lower than the level of imports of products in that category originating in Macau in 1976.
6. Quantitative limits may also be established by the Community on a regional basis in accordance with the provisions of Protocol Bf
7» The annual growth rate for the quantitative limits introduced
tinder this Article shall be determined in accordance"with the pro­ visions of Protocol C.
8. The provisions of this Article shall not apply where the percen tages specified in paragraph 2 have been reached as a result of fall in total imports into the Community, and not as a result of an in­ crease in exports of products originating in Macau.
9 . In the event of the -provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article being applied, Macau undertakes to issue export licences for products covered by contracts concluded before the introduction of the quanti­ tative limit, up to the volume of the quantitative limit fixed for
the current year.
10 . For the purpose of applying the provisions of paragraph 2 , the Community undertakes to provide the Macau authorities, before 31 March of each year, with the preceding year's statistics on imports of all textile products covered by this Agreement, broken down by supplying country and Community Member State .
11. The provisions of this Agreement which concern exports of . products subject to the quantitative limits established in Annex II
shall also apply to products for which quantitative limits are introduced under this Article.
 Section II : Administration of the Agreement
1. Macau undertakes to supply the Community with precise statis­ tical information on all export licences issued by the Macau autho­
rities for all categories of textile products subject to the quan­ titative limits set out in Annex II .
2. The Community shall likewise transmit to the Macau authorities precise statistical information on import authorizations or documents issued by the Community authorities, and import statistics for pro­ ducts covered by the system of administrative control referred to in Article 6(2).
3. The information referred to above shall, for all categories of products, be transmitted before the end of the second month following the quarter to which the statistics relate-.
4. Should it be found on analysis of the information exchanged that there are significant discrepancies between the returns for exports and those for imports , consultations may be initiated in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 14 of this Agreement.
Any amendment to the Common Customs Tariff or Nimexe, made in accordance with the procedures in force in the Community, concerning categories of products covered by this Agreement or any decision relating to the classification of goods shall not have the effect
of reducing any quantitative limit established in Annex II .
Macau shall endeavour to ensure that exports of textile products subject to quantitative limits are spaced out as evenly
as possible over the year, due account being taken, in particular, of seasonal factors.
However, should recourse be had to the provisions of Article 18 (3), the quantitative limits established in Annex II shall be reduced on a pro rata basis.
Should there be an excessive concentration of imports on any product belonging to a category subject to quantitative limits under this Agreement, the Community may request consultations in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 14 of this Agreement with a view to remedying this situation.
1. Portions of the quantitative limits established, in Annex II not used in a Member State of the Community may be allocated to another Member State in accordance with the procedures in force in the Community. The Community undertakes to reply within four weeks to any request made by Macau for such reallocation. It is understood that any reallocation so effected shall not be subject to the limits fixed under the flexibility provisions set out in Article 5 of this Agreement.
2. Should it appear in any given region of the Community that additional supplies are required, the Community may, where measures taken pursuant to paragraph 1 above are inadequate to cover those requirements, authorize the importation of amounts greater than those stipulated in Annex II.
After application of this Agreement to the categories of products in Group I for a period of two years , the quantitative limits shall be revised by common accord, upwards or downwards, in the light of consumption in the Community.
1. Macau and the Community undertake to refrain from discrimination
in the allocation of export licences and import authorizations or documents respectively.
2. In implementing this Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall take carc to maintain the traditional commercial practices and trade flows "between the Community and Macau.
3. Should either Party find that the application of this Agreement is disturbing existing commercial relations between importers in the- Community and suppliers in Macau, consultations shall be start-id promptly, in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 14 of this Agreement, with a view to remedying this situation.
1. The special consultation procedures referred to in this Agreement shall be governed by the following rules:
- any request for consultations shall be notified in writing to the other Party;
- the request for consultations shall be followed within a reasonable period (and in any case not later than fifteen days following the notification) by a statement setting out the reasons and circumstances which, in the opinion of the requesting Party, justify the submission of such
- the Parties shall enter into consultations within one month
at the"latest of notificr.tion of the- request, with a view
to reaching agreement 'or a mutually acceptable conclusion within' one month at the latest.
2. If necessary, at the request of either of the Parties and in conformity with the provisions of the Geneva Arrangement, consulta­ tions shall be held on any problems arising from the application of this Agreement. Any consultations held under this Article shall be approached by both Parties in a spirit of cooperation and with a desire to reconcile the difference between them.
 Section III : Transitional and Final Frovisons
1. The provisions of this Agreement shall not apply to imports of products subject to quantitative limits in 1977 » provided such products are shipped before 1 January 1976.
2. Products originating in Macau which become subject to quanti- . tative limits from 1 January 197B only , in pursuance of this Agree­ ment, may be imported into the Community without the production of
en export licence until ^1 March 1978, provided such products aro shipped be-fore 1 January 1978.
By way of derogation from Articles 2 and 8 of Protocol A,
the Community undertakes to issue import authorizations or docu­ ments without the production of an export licence or certificate of origin in the form prescribed in the said Article 8 for products originating in Macau subject to quantitative limits under this
Agreement, provided such products are shipped in the period from 1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978 and do not exceed 4CP* of the quantitative limits applicable to the products. This period may be extended by agreement reached between the Parties in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of this Agreement.
The Community shall supply the Macau authorities without delay with precise statistical information on import authorizations or documents issued tinder this Article; the said authorities shall
set the corresponding amounts off against the quantitative limits established in' Annex II for the products in question for 1978 .
This Agreement shall apply to the territories within which the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community is applied, and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty on the one hand , and to the territory of Macau on the othe-r hand.
1« This Agreement sh^ll enter into force on the firnt dn.v of month following the date on which the Contracting Parties notif
e^ch other of the completion of the procedures necessary for tr purpose. It shall be applicable until 31 December 19^2.
2. This Agreement shall apply with effect fro:i 1 January 197"
3. Either Party may at any time propose modifications to this
Agreement or denounce it provided that at least ninety days* notice is given. In the latter event the Agreement shall rone to an end on the expiry of the period of notice.
f\. The Annexes and Protocols to this Agreement and the exch*n of letters shall form an integral part thereof.
This Agreement shall be drawn up in two copies in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Italian and Portuguese languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
The competent authorities of Macau shall issue an export licence in respect of all consignments from Macau of textile products referred to in Annex II , up to the relevant quantitative limits as may be modified by Articles 5 and H of the Agreement.
The export licence shall conform to the' model annexed to this Protocol. It must certify, inter alia, that the quantity of the product in question has been set off against the quantitative
limit prescribed for the category of the product in question.
The competent Community authorities must be notified forthwith of the withdrawal or alteration of any export licence already issued.
•Exports shall be set off against the quantitative limits established for the year in which shipment of the goods has been effected, even if the export licence is issued after such shipment.
Importation into the Community of textile products subject to quantitative limits shall be subject to the presentation of an import authorization or document.
The competent Community authorities shall issue such import authorization or document automatically within five working days of the presentation by the importer of a certified copy of the corresponding export licence.
The import authorization or document shall bs valid for six months •
1. If the competent Community authorities find that the total quantities covered by export licences issued by Macau for a particu­
lar category in any Agreement year exceeds the quantitative limit established in Annex II for that category, as may be modified by
Article 5 and 11 of the Agree-ment, the said authorities may suspend the further issue of import authorizations or documents . In this event, the competent Community authorities shall immediately inform the authorities of Macau and the special consultation procedure,
set out in Article 14 of the Agreement shall be initiated forthwith.
 2. Exports of Macau origin not covered by Macau export licences issued in accordance with the provisions of this Protocol may be refused the issue of import authorizations or documents by the competent Community authorities. However, if the imports of such products are allowed into the Community by the competent Community authorities, the quantities involved.shall not be set off against the appropriate limits set out in Annex II without the express agreement of Macau.
1. Products originating in Macau for export to the Community in accordance with the arrangements established by this Agreement
shall be accompanied by a certificate of Macau origin conforming to the model annexed to this Protocol.
2» The certificate of origin shall be issued by the competent governmental authorities of Macau if the products in question can be considered products originating in that country within the meaning of the relevant rules in force in the Community.
The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the certificate of origin and those made in the documents produced to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the product shall not ipso facto cast doubt upon the statements in the certificate.
1. Subsequent verification of certificates of origin shall be carried out at random, or whenever the competent Community autho­ rities have reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the certifi­ cate or as to the accuracy of the information regarding the true origin of the products in question.
 In such cases the competent authorities in the Community shall return the certificate of origin or a copy thereof to the competent governmental authority in Macau, giving, where appropriate, the reasons of form or substance for an enquiry. If the invoice has
been submitted, such invoice or a copy thereof shall be attached
to the certificate or its copy. The authorities shall also forward any information that has been obtained suggesting that the particulars given on the said certificate axe inaccurate.
2. The results of the subsequent verifications carried out in accordance with paragraph 1 above shall be communicated to the competent authorities of the Community within three months at the latest.
3. For the purpose of subsequent verification of certificates of origin, copies of the certificates as well as any export documents referring to them shall be kept for at least two years by the com­ petent governmental authority in Macau.
4* Recourse to the random verification procedure specified in this Article must not constitute an obstacle to the release for home use of the products' in- question.
The. provisionsofthisTitleshallnotapplytogoodscovered by a certificate of origin Form A completed in accordance with the relevant Community rules in order to qualify for generalized tariff
Title III : Form and production of export licences and certificates of origin, and
The export licence and the certificate of origin may comprise additional copies duly indicated as such. They shall "be made out
in English or French. If they are completed by hand, entries must be in ink and in printscript.
These documents shall measure 210 x 297 mm. The paper used must be white sized writing paper not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m . Each part shall have a printed guilloche-pattern background making any falsification by mechanical
or chemical means apparent to the eye.
Each document shall bear a serial number-, whether or not printed, by which it can be identified.
The export licence and the certificate of origin may be issued after the shit-.ent of the products to which they relate. In such cases they shall bear either'the endorsement "delivre a posteriori" or the endorsement "issued'retrospectively".-
In the event of theft, loss or destruction of an export licence or a certificate of origin, the exporter may apply to the competent governmental authority which issued the document for a duplicate to be made out on the basis of the export documents in his possession. The duplicate licence or certificate so issued shall bear the endor­ sement "duplicata".
The duplicate must bear the date of the original licence or certificate .
The competent governmental authorities in Macau shall satisfy themselves that the goods exported correspond to the statements given in the export licence and certificate of origin.
Macau shall send the Commission of the European Communities the names and addresses of the governmental authorities,competent to issue export licences and certificates of origin, together with specimens of stamps used by these authorities.
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
3 Quota year
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF G000S
11 Quantity (1) Quantité (1)
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above have been charged against the quantitative limit established for the year shown in box No 3 in respect of the category shown in box No 4 by the provisions regulating trade in textile products with the European Economic Community.
14 Compétent authority (name. fuil address, country)
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF G00DS
11 Quantity (1) Quantity (1)
3 Quota year
6 Country of origm Pays d'origine
 In accordance with the procedures set out in paragr^nhs 2
and 4 of Article 6 of the Agreement , a cmant it stive limit m*y be fired on a regional basis where imports of a given product into .-\ny rog*on of the Community exceed , in relation to the amounts given
in paragraph 2 of the said Article 6, the following regional percentages :
Italy 15 / Denmark 3 f
Ireland 1
 The annual growth rate for the quantitative limits introduced under Article 6 of the Agreement shall be determined as follows:
(a) for products in Group I 2
- the rate shall "be fixed at 0.5% per year for a product in category 1 or 2,
- the rate shall "be fixed at 4% per year for a product in category 5,
(b) for products in categories falling within Group II, III, IV or V, the growth rate shall be fixed by agreement between the Parties in accordance with the consultation
procedure established in Article 14 of the Agreement . Such growth rate may in no case be lower thr.n the highest rate applied to corresponding products under bilateral agreements concluded under the Geneva Arrangement between the Community and other third countries having a level of trade equal to or comparable v/ith that of Macau.
Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two Parties on 13 December 1977.
Pursuant to Article 16 of the said Agreement, I should be grateful if you would confirm that Macau shall not be bound to suspend the issue of an export licence or certificate of origin during the period of 1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978 in a form other than that prescribed in Article 8 of Protocol A to the said Agreement.
Commission of the European Communities,
I hereby confirm receipt of the following letters
"Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two Parties on 13 December 1977.
Pursuant to Article 16 of the said Agreement , I should be grateful if you would confirm that Macau shall not be bound to suspend the issue of an export licence or certificate of origin during the period of 1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978 in a form other than that prescribed in Article 8 of Protocol A to the said Agreement."
I confirm that Macau shall not be bound to suspend the issue of documents mentioned in the foregoing letter during the period of 1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978.
I hereby confirm receipt of the following letter:
"Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two Parties on 13 December 1977#
Pursuant to Annex II of the said agreement, the Community reserves the right to make adjustments, from 1 January 1979» to the distribution between Member States of the quantitative limits established in Annex II to the Agreement , it being understood that in no case shall the Community level of the limits in question be reduced. Macau shall be informed at least six months in advance of any such adjustments. Should it appear that such adjustments might create difficulties in regard to the flows of trade between the Community and Macau, consultations shall be opened promptly, in accordance with the procedure specified in article 14 of the Agree­ ment, with a view to remedying these problems.
I 'would be grateful if you would confirm your agreement to the foregoing.•'
I confirm my agreement to the content of the foregoing letter.
Commission of the European Communities,
Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two Parties on 13 December 1977.
Pursuant to Annex II of the said Agreement , the Community reserves the right to make adjustments, from 1 January 1979» to the distribution between Member States of the .quantitative limits established in Annex II to the Agreement , it being understood that in no case shall the Community level of the limits in question be reduced. Macau shall be informed at least six months in advance of any such adjustments. Should it appear that such adjustments might create difficulties in regard to the flows of trade between the Community and Macau, consultations shall be opened promptly, in accordance with the procedure specified in article 14 of the Agreement, with a view to remedying these problems.
I would be grateful if you would confirm your agreement to the foregoing.
concerning: Article 2 (3 ; of the A/reement
' The Community declares that , in accordance with the Cciuni ' rules on origin referred to in Article 2 (3) of the Arreer-ent, rvn ••-ne-.viments to the said rules will remain bnsed unon criteria no1, requiring , in order to confer oriri.nitinr status , more extensive
->-»erations than those which constitute p single connlete process.
^or the Kurooean Economic Community
The<Mission of Portugal to the European Communities presents its compliments to the Directorate General for External Relations of the Commission of the European Communities and. has the honour to refer to the Agreement in textile products negotiated between Macau and the Community and initialled on 13 December 1977.
The Mission wishes to inform the Directorate General that whilst awaiting the completion of the necessary procedures for the conclusion and the coming into force of the Agreement , the Government of Macau is prepared to allow the provisions of the Agreement to apply de facto from 1st January 1978 if the Community is disposed to do likewise.
The Mission would be grateful if the Community would confirm its agreement to the foregoing.
The Mission would like also to propose that the present note and the Community's note in reply shall constitute an Agreement between the Government of Macau and the Community.
The Mission of Portugal "to the European Communities avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Directorate General for External Relations the assurance of its highest consideration.
 The Directorate General for External Relations of the Commission
presents its compliments to the Mission of Portugal to the European Communities and has the honour to refer to the Mission's Note of today reading as follows?
"The Mission of Portugal to the European Communities presentes its compliments to the Directorate General for External Relations of the Commission of the European Communities and has the honour to refer to the Agreement in textile products negotiated between Macau and the Community and initialled on 13 Decembc-r 1977•
The Mission wishes to inform the Directorate General that whilst awaiting the completion of the necessary procedures for the conclusion and the coming into force of the Agreement, the Government of Macau is prepared to allow the provisions of the Agreement to apply de facto from 1st January 1978 if the Community is disposed to do likewise.
The Mission would be grateful if the Community would confirm its agreement to the foregoing.
The Mission would like also to propose that the present note
and the Community's note in reply shall constitute an Agreement between the Government of Macau and the Community.
The Mission of Portugal to the European Communities avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Directorate General for External Relations the assurance of its highest consideration".
The Directorate of External Relations has the honour to confirm to the Mission that it is agreed on the content of the foregoing Note and considers therefore that the exchange of Notes constitutes an agreement between the Government of Macau and the Community.
The Directorate General for External Relations avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Mission of Portugal to the European Communities the assurance of its highest consideration.
Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two parties on 1^ December 1977*
Macau hereby notifies the Community that during the currency of the Agreement, it will not invoke the provisions of the Geneva
Arrangement as they concern handloom fabrics of the cottage industry or hand-made cottage industry products made of such handloom fabrics , or traditional folklore handicraft textile products, as provided for in Article 12 (3) of the said Arrangement, without the agreement of the Community.
I should be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter .
Commission of the European Communities,
I hereby confirm the receipt of the following letter:
^Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled betwean the two parties on 13 December 1977. *
Macau • hereby notifies the Community that during the- currency of the Agreement , it will not invoke the provisions cf the Geneva Arrangement as they concern handloom fabrics of the
. cottage industry or hand-made cottage industry products mace of
such handloom fabrics , or traditional folklore handicraft textile products, as provided for in Article 12 (3) of the said Arrangement,
without the agreement of the Community.
I should be grateful' if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter".
Tableau d«s équivalences Table of aoulvalence
of cotton , other than
gauze , pile other
narrow woven fabrics ,
of which other than unbleached or bleached
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Tfble of «quivalence
Woven fabrics of synthetic fibres (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow
woven fabrics , pile fabrics ( including fabrics) and chenille fabrics
Shirts , T-shirts , lightweight roll or turtle
Tablmu dts équlralencas Tpfcle of «ulvalenct
neck pullovers , undervests and' the knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , other than babies' garments , of cotton or synthetio textile fibres
Shirts other than T-shirts Chandails , pull-overs , slip-overs ,
cardigans , bed-jackets and jumpers , knitted
twinsets , rubberised
Men 's and boys' woven breeches , shorts and trousers (including slacks); women's,
girls' and infants' woven trousers and slacks
Blouses and shirt-blouses , knitted or crocheted (not elastic nor rubberised), or woven, for women, girls and infants
Men's and boys' shirts, woven
Men 's and boys' coats of impregnated , covered or laminated woven fabric
fan's and boys' woven overcoats, raincoats and other coats , cloaks and capes , other than those of category 14 A
lien 's and boy 's underpants and briefs , women 's frirln' and infants' (other than babies' ), knickers and briefs , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised, of cotton or synthetic textile fibres
cotton terry fabrics ;
kitchen linen of woven cotton terry fabrics 1
Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or o^och^tod, not elastic nor rubberised , impre­
gnated or coated with artificial plastic materials
Gloves , mittens and mitts , crocheted not elastic nor than those of category 10
knitted or rubberised ,
other
v'tooki.'ign , under stockings , socks , ankle--: rocks , sockettes and the like , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , other than women's stockings of synthetic textile fibres
Men's and boys' woven suits (including
three nieces ,, which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
Women's, girls* and infants' coats of
impregnated , coated , covered or laminated woven fahric
Women's, girls' and infants' woven overcoats , raincoats and other coats ,
cloaks and capes , jackets and "blazers , other than garments of category 15 A
| co-ordinate suits consisting of two or
ften 's and boys *
jackets and
."en's and boys' woven under garments other than shirts
Handkerchiefs of woven cotton fabrics, not more than 15 EUA/kg
Yarn of discontinuous or waste synthetic
a) dont acrylique of vrnich acrylic
Parkas , anoraks , windcheaters and the like , ' woven
fibres, not put up for retail sale I
xarn of discontinuous or waste regenerated . fibres, not put up for retail sale
Ken 's and boys 1
of cotton or of synthetic textile fibres I
Women's, girls* and infants' (other than babies' ) knitted or crocheted pyjamas and nightdresses , of cotton or synthetic fibres
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than
babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted
Women's, girls' and infants', (other than babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted skirts , including divided skirts
^Knitted or crocheted trousers (except shorts other than babies'
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than babies' ; woven suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces which are ordered., packed , consigned and normally sold together)
Women's, girls' and infants* woven pyjamas 'and nightdresses
Tâbleuj d«s équivalences Tcbls of équivalence
Women's. girls' and infants1 (other than "babies') woven undergarments other than pyjamas and nightdresses
Brassieres, woven, knitted or crocheted ¥
(other than terry fabrics of cotton and
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of polyethylene or polypropylene , less than
3 m wide; woven sacks of such strip or the like
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of
polyethylene or polypropylene 3 m or more wide ■
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (continuous) other than those for tyres and those containing elastomerio yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of synthetio textile fibres (continuous), other than those for tyres
and those containing elastomeric yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Tobl8 of 1quivalence J
Woven iabrics of regenerated textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow woven fabrics , pile fabrics
(including terry fabrics) and chenille fabrics
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Knitted or crocheted synthetic curtain fabrics including net -urtain fabric
Woven table linen , toilet and kitchen linen other than of cotton terry fabric
Woven curtains (other thar. net curtains) and furnishing articles
Yarn of synthetic textile fibres (continuous) not put up for retail sale, other than non- textured single yarn untwisted or with a twist of not more than 50 turns per m
Yam of regenerated textile fibres (continuous), not put up for retail sale,
«' other than single yarn of viscose rayon untwisted or with a twist of not more than
250 turns per m and single non-textured yarn of any acetate
Yarn of man-made fibres (continuous) put up ror retail sale
'even fabrics of synthetic textile fibres (continuous), containing elastomeric yarn
Woven fabrics of synthetic textile fibres (continuous), containing elastomeric yarn
Carded or combed sheep 's or lamb 's wool or other fine animal hair
Yarn of carded sheep's or lamb's wool (wollen
Teblesu des 6qutralenees Trille of wiu1valence
yar/i ) or of carded fine up for retail sale
Yarn of sheep's or lamb's wool or of fine animal hair, put up for retail sale
Woven fabrics of sheep 's of fire animal hair
Yarn, of combed sheep 's or lamb 's wool (v;orsted yarn) or of combed fine animal hair, not put up for retail sale
1 carpeting, rugs, mats and matting, and '"Kelera" 1 "ochunacks" and "Karamanie" rugs and the like
Coton cardé ou peigne . Carded or combed cotton
Tableau <fes équivalences T*b1a of équivalence
fle.^enerp.ted textile fibres (discontinuous or jwarte), carded or combed
Synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste ), carded or combed
of synthetic textile fibres discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sale ■ .
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sal e
Carpets, carpetting and rugs, knotted (made UD or not)
[made up or not); floor coverings of felt
on both edges , other
made than woven
width with otherwise )
selvedges ( woven , gummed or
the like :
faites a la main hand made
Narrow woven fabrics not exceeding 30 cm in
badges and the like , not
embroidered, in the piece, in strips or cut tc
nhape or size;
Timoel yarn (other than metallised yarn and .'"inipe'i horsehair yarn); braids and ornamental trincni.'igs in the piece ; tassels , pompons and the like ;
"\ille and other net fabrics (but not including woven, knitted or crocheted fabrics),
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including
woven, knitted or crocheted fabrics), figured ;
hand or mechanically made lace , in the or in motifs ;
Embroidery , in the piece , in strips or motifs
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised , of synthetic textile fibres , •containing elastofibres ; knitted or crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
lace and long-pile fabric (imitation fur ), kr.itted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , of synthetic textile fibres
Knitted or crocheted fabrics, not elastic nor
rubberised , other than those 38 Aj 63 and 64
of categories
Travelling rugs and blankets I•
: Clothing accessories and other articles (except garments), knitted or crocheted, not ■ elastic nor rubberised; articles (other than
baching costumes ), of knitted or 'crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
Babies' under garments of knitted or
crocheted fabrics , not elastic nor rubberised
slips , of other than
Tableeu des équivalences Tfble of eaulvalenea
of knitted or crocheted elastic nor rubberised
Track suits of knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised
Women's, girls' and infants1 (other than babies' ) suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
petticoats and textile fibre ,
girls' and infants' knitted or
Babies' knitted outer garments
Men's and boys' suits (including co­
ordinate suits consisting of two or three
pieces , which are ordered , packed ,
cor.pi^ied and normally sold together) of
knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Men's and boys' woven industrial and occupational clothing ; women 's , girls' and infants' woven aprons , smock-overalls and other industrial and. occupational clothing
(whether or not also suitable for domestic use )
V/omen 's stockings of . synthetic textile
wear and other
garments of categories 6, 14A, 14B, 16, 17i ?1, 76 and 79
Wen 's and boys'
jackets and
, escent ferments of categories 6, 7, 15A, X-.3, 2-, 2o, 27, 29, 76, 79 and 80
'Jncter garments , other than babies' , knitted
or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , : of wool, fine animal hair or regenerated
Corsets , corset-belts , suspender-belts , braces , suspenders , garters and the like (including such articles of knitted or crocheted fabric), other than brassieres,
and infants' woven bath
gowns , bed jackets and
sirn': indoor wear and other outer garments
other than garments
; of categories 5, 7, 26, 27,. 28, 7.1, 72, 73,
74 and 75
I Chawls , scarves , mufflers , mantillas , I *.nd t."n*? l<ke, other than knitted or
Ties , how ties and cravats , knitted or crocheted
other than
– I whether or not elastic J
Gloves , mittens , mitts , stockings , socks ancl sockettes , not being knitted or crocheted goods
Tide up accessories for articles of apparel ( for example , dress shields , shoulder and
othor pads , belts , muffs , sleeve protectors , pockets), other than knitted or crocheted
Handkerchiefs of woven cotton fabric of a value of more than 15 EUA/Kg
Woven fabrics of man-made textile fibres and rubberised textile woven fabrics, for tyres
Sackr? and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods , of woven fabric , -other than made from polyethylene or polypropylene strip
Twine , cordage , ropes and cables , of synthetic
or not .
i'iH'in.inc and articles of wadding ; flock and dust and mill neps
Fslt and articles of feltf whether or not impregnated or coated, other than floor coverings
prepared painting canvas ; buckram and ' similar fabrics for hat foundations and
Bon'le^ fibre fabrics , similar bonded yam fabrics , and articles of such fabrics ,
whether or not impregnated or coated, other
than clothing and clothing accessories ι
Nets and netting maie of twine, cordage or
rope , and made up fishing nets of cordage or rope
Other articles:, made "from yarn , twine , cordage , rope or cables , other than textile fabrics , articles made from such fabrics and articles
of category 9?
Toctile fabrics coated with gum or anrylaceous
substances, of a kind used for the outer covers of books and the like ; tracing cloth;
Textile fabrics impregnated , coated , covered or laminated with preparations of celluloce derivatives or of other artificial plastic
Elastic fabrics and trimmings (other than knitted or crocheted goods) consisting of textile materials combined with rubber threads
Wicks , of '-woven, plaited or knitted textile materials , for l'amps , stoves , lighters , candles and the like ; tubular knitted gas-mantle fabric and incandescent gas mantles
Twine , cordage ropes and cables , plaited of not, other than of synthetic textile fibres
Linoleum and materials prepared on a textile bp.se in a similar ranner to linoleum,whether or not cut to shape or of a kind used as floor coverings ; floor coverings consisting of a coating applied on a textile base, cut to shape or not
Rubberised textile fabrics other than rubberised knitted or crocheted goods, excluding fabrics for tyres
Textile fabrics , impregnated or co'ated , othei than those of categories 99 » 100 , 102 and
303 ; painted canvas being theatrical scenery, studio backcloths or the like
Tfbla of <
rfoven tarpaulins , sails, awings
Textile hosepiping and similar tubing, vjith or without lining, armour or accessories of other materials
Iransmission , conveyor or elevator belts or belting , of .textile material , whether or
not strengthened with metal or other material
Camping goods, woven, other than pneumatic mattresses and tents
Other made-up textile articles , woven, excluding those of categories 113 and 114
Floor cloths , dish cloths , dusters and the like other than knitted or crocheted
Textile fabrics and textile articles of a kind commonly used in machinery or plant
Description of products
b) Knitted shirts other than T shirts
Vosen1# woven and knitted "blouaet
Men1* and women's woven trousers
and men 's
and breeches
Description of products
Woaen^s overcoatsf raincoats and other coats, cloaks and jackets
ycn's woven jackets and blazers
pen's woven underwear other than shirts
Description of products
Tarns of discontinuous synthetic fibres not for retail atie
of whichlaorylic fibres Ken a knitted pyjanaa
Women's knitted nirhtvear
Vovan and. knitted dresse*
Vozen's voven pyjanas and aightdresse»
Voaen't other woven underwear
TafcLt linen toilet and kitchen lirsn oxier tian fran terry fahrio
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF G00DS
11 Ouantity (1) Quantité (1)
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above have been charged against the quantitative limit established for the year shown in box No 3 in respect of the category shown in box No 4 by Wte provisions regulating trade in textile products with the European Economic Community.
i 3 Ounta year
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF G00DS
11 Quaotity (1) Quantité (1)
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6. in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic
PrtaM by WILHEIM HOMIER VERLA6, 4950 Mind** 1, Postfacb 1130. Briicktiikopf 2i -
Republic of
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
(Trân Van Thinh)
Sig. Tran Van Thinh
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport lieu et date d'embarcuement - Moyen de transport
3 Quota year
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF 6000S
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above have been charged against the quantitative limit established for the year shown in box No 3 in respect of the category shown in box No 4 by the provisions regulating trade in textile products with the European Economic Community.
6 Country of 0119m Pays d'origine
8 Place and date of shtpment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated m the country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic Community.
Priittd fcy WllHUM KdHKR VfRlAG. 4950 Mlftdea 1 , Pottfaeh 1 1 30, Bruckenkopf 2 a - Fttferal Republic of Germany
3 Quota year
6 Country of ofigin Pays d'origine
(Trfin Van–Thinh)
Woven fabrics of cotton, other than gauze, terry fabrics, narrow woven fabrics, pile
fabrics, chenille fabrics, tulle and other net fabrics
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Tableau das équivalences I Table of équivalence J
I Woven fabrics of synthetic fibres (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow
I of- which other than unbleached or I bleached
Shirts , T-shirts , lightweight roll or turtle
Tablant das équivalences Tabla of équivalence pièces/kg gr/ pleca
neck pullovers , undervests and' the knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised , other than babies' garments , of cotton or synthetic textile fibres
Shirts other than T-shirts Chandails , pull-overs , slip-overs ,
cardigans , bed-jackets and or crocheted , not elastic
twinsets , jumpers , knitted
Ken 's and boys' woven breeches , shorts and trousers (including slacks); women's,
girls' and infants' woven trousers and slacks ■ -
Blouses and shirt-blouses , knitted or crocheted (not elastic nor rubberised), or woven, for women, girls and infants
Men's and boys * shirts ,
Woven cotton terry fabrics; toilet and kitchen linen of woven cotton terry fabrics
Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised , impre­
gnated or coated with artificial plastic materials
Gloves , mittens and mitts , crocheted not elastic nor than those of category 10
knitted or rubberised ,
other
Stockings', ' under stockings , socks , ankle- >-* socks, sockettes and the like!, knitted <5r crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised, other than women's stockings of synthetic textile fibres
Men 's and boy 's underpants and briefs , women 's girls' and infants' (other than babies' ), knickers and briefs, knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised, of cotton or synthetic textile fibres
Men 's and boys' coat6 of impregnated , coated , covered or laminated woven fabric
Men 's and
and other
than those of category 14 A
woven overcoats , raincoats cloaks and capes , other
Women's, girls' and infants' coats of impregnated , coated , covered or laminated
Women's, girls' and infants' woven overcoats , raincoats and other coats , cloaks and capes , jackets and blazers , other than garments of category 15 A
Men'-s and boys' woven suits (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces, which are ordered, packed", consigned and normally sold together)
Ken 's and boys f woven jackets and blazers
Men's and boys' woven under garments other than shirts. v
Handkerchiefs of woven fabrics', not more than 15 EXJA/kg
and the
Yarn of discontinuous or waste synthetic fibres, not put up for retail sale
I of which acrylic
Yarn of discontinuous or waste regenerated . fibres, not put up for retail sale
Men 's and boys 1 pyjamas , knitted or crocheted L_J of cotton or of synthetic textile fibres . I
Women's, girls' and infants* (other than babies' ) knitted or crocheted pyjamas and nightdresses , of cotton or synthetic fibres
Women's, girls' and infants* (other than babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted dresses ' .
Women's, girls' and infants', (other than babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted skirts , including divided skirts
Knitted or crocheted trousers (except shorts] other than babies 1
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than babies' ) woven suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces v;hich are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
Women 's , girls 1 and infants' woven pyjamas and nightdresses
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than babies' ) woven undergarments other than pyjamas and nightdresses
Brassieres , woven , knitted or crocheted
. Tebleeu des équivalences Table of équivalence
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of polyethylene or polypropylene, less than
3 m wide; woven sacks of such strip or the like *
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of
polyethylene or polypropylene 3 m or more wide
Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics (other than terry fabrics of cotton and
narrow woven fabrics)
Woven fabrics of synthetic textile fibres (continuous), other than those for tyres and those containing elastomeric yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (continuous) other than those for tyres and those containing elastomeric * yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow woven fabrics , pile fabrics
(including terry fabrics) and chenille fabrics
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Knitted or crocheted synthetic curtain fabrics including net rnrtain fabric
Woven table linen, toilet and kitchen linen other than of cotton terry fabric
Woven curtains (other than net curtains) and furnishing articles
Yarn of synthetic textile fibres (continuous) not put up for retail sale, other than non- textured single yarn untwisted or with a twist of not more than 50 turns per m
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres (continuous), not put up for retail sale-,* other than single yarn of viscose rayon
untwisted or with a twist of not more than
250 turr.s'pe'r m'and single non-textured yaf-n of any acetate
Yarn of marwnade fibres "(continuous) put up for retail sale
/.'oven fabrics of synthetic textile fibres (continuous), containing elastomeric yarn
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (continuous), containing elastomeric yarn
M Carded, or combed sheep 's or lamb 's wool
other fine animal hair
Yarn, of combed sheep 's or lamb 's wool (v/orsted yarn) or of combed fine animal hair, ;;ot put up for retail sale
Yarn of sheep 's or lamb 's wool or of fine animal hair.' put up for retail sale
Woven fabrics of sheep's or lamb's wool or of Tine animal hair
Yarn of carded sheep's or lamb's wool (woollen yarn) or of carded fine animal hair, not put up for retail sale
Regenerated textile fibres (discontinuous or
Coton cardé ou peigne . Carded or combed cotton
carded or combed
Synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded or combed
Yarn of synthetic textile fibres , (discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sale
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sale \\
Carpets , carpetting and up or not)
Woven, knitted or crocheted carpets ,
carpeting, rugs, mats and matting, and ' Kelera "bchumacks" and "Karamanie" rugs and the like [made up or not); floor coverings of felt
Narrow woven fabrics not exceeding 30 cm in width with selvedges (woven, gummed or made otherwise) on both edges, other than woven labels and the like ; bolduc .
faites a la main hand made
embroidered, . in the piece, in strips or cut to shape or size; . Chenille yarn (including flock chenille yarn), gimped yarn (other than metallised yajrn and pimped horsehair yarn ); braids and' ornamental trilnmings in the piece ; tassels , pompons and
the like;
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including
I woven, knitted or crocheted fabrics ),
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including
woven, knitted or crocheted fabricr), figured ;
hand or mechanically made lace , in the piece , or in motifs;
Unbroidery , in the piece , in strips or in motifs
badges and the like , not
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised, of synthetic textile fibres, containing elastofibres ; knitted or crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
Rachel lace and long-pile fabric (imitation
Table of équivalence J
fur ), knitted or crocheted , not elastic rubberised, of synthetic textile fibres
Knitted or crocheted fabrics, iiot elastic nor
rubberised , other than 38 A," 63 and 64
of categori.ee
Travelling rugs and blankets
Clothing accessories and other articles (except garments), knitted or crocheted, not ^lactic nor rubberised; articles (other than
baohiiig costumes ), of knitted or crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
Babies' under garments of knitted or crocheted fabrics , not elastic nor rubberised
girls * and infants' knitted or petticoats and slips , of textile fibre , other than
Babies.' knitted outer garments
Track suits of knitted or crochete<^.fabric, not elastic nor rubberised
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than babies') suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three- pieces which are ordered, packed, consigned and normally sold together)
of knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Men's and boys' suits (including co­ ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces , which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together) of knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Men's and boys' woven industrial and occupational clothing; women's, girls' and infants', woven aprons , smock-overalls and other industrial and occupational clothing (whether or not also suitable for domestic use)'
Women's stockings of synthetic textile fibre
Ken 's and boys' wbven bath robes , dressing gowns, smoking jackets and similar indoor wear and other outer garments , except garments of categories 6, 14A, 14B, 16, 17, 21, 76 and 79
Ttbleou dos équivalences I Table of équivalence J
similar indoor wear and other outer garments except garments of categories 6, 7» 15A, 15B, 21, 26, 27, 29, 76, 79 and oO
Under garments , other than babies' , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised ,
of woolf fine animal hair or regenerated textile fibres
Ties , bow ties and cravats , knitted or crocheted
other than
and infants' woven bath gowns , bed jackets and
elastic nor rubberised ,
of categories 5, 7, 26, 27, 28, 71, 72, 73, 74 and 75
Corsets , corset-belts , suspender–belts , braces , suspenders , garters and the like (including such articles of knitted or crocheted fabric), other than brassieres, whether or not elastic
or crocheted , not other than garments
Shawls , scarves , mufflers , mantillas , and the like, other than knittec?- or crocheted
and sockettes , not crocheted goods
Made up accessories for articles of apparel (for example, dress shields, shoulder and other pads , belts , muffs , sleeve protectors ,
pockets), other than knitted or crocheted
Handkerchiefs of woven cotton fabric of a value of more than 15 EIJA/Kg
Twine , cordage , ropes and cables , of synthetic
not .
Woven fabrics of man-made textile fibres and rubberised textile woven fabrics, for tyres .
Sacks ancl"b2gs , "of a kind used for the packing of goods , of woven fabric , other than made from polyethylene or polypropylene strip
Wadding and articles of wadding ; flock and dust and mill neps
Pelt and articles of felt, whether or not
impregnated or coverings
coated ,
other than
Bonded fibre fabrics , similar bonded yarn fabrics , and' articles of such fabrics ,
whether or not impregnated or coated, other than clothing and clothing accessories
Nets and netting made of twine, cordage or rope , and made up fishing nets of yarn , twine cordage or rope
Other articles:made froir yarn,twine, cordage,
Textile fabrics impregnated , coated , cr ered or laminated w:;.th preparations of cellulose
derivatives or of other artificial plastic materials ;
rope or -cables ,- other than textile fabric^, articles made from such fabrics and articles
of category 97 *
Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous substances, of a kind used for the outer covers of books and the like ; tracing cloth; prepared painting canvas ; buckram and
similar fabrics for hat foundations and similar uses
Twine , cordage ropes and cables , plaited or not, other than of synthetic textile fibres
Linoleum and materials prepared on a textile base in a similar ranncr to linoleum,whether or not cut to shape or of a kind used as floor coverings ; floor coverings consisting of a coating applied on a textile base, cut to shape or not
Rubberised textile fabrics other than rubberised knitted or crocheted goods , excluding fabrics for tyres
Textile fabrics , impregnated or coated , othei than those of categories 99 , 100 , 102 and
103 ; painted canvas being theatrical scenery, studio backcloths or the like
Elastic fabrics and trimmings (other than
knitted or crocheted goods) consisting of
textile materials combined with rubber „ threads
Wicks, of woven, plaited or knitted textile materials, for l'amps, stoves, lighters, . candles and the like ; tubular knitted gas-mantle fabric and incandescent gas mantles
îablaau dos équivalences I Table of équivalence 1
Textile hosepiping and similar tubing, with or without lining, armour or accessories of other materials
Transmission , conveyor or elevator belts belting, of textile material, whether or not strengthened with metal or other material
Woven tarpaulins , sails, swings
Camping. gopdsv woven, other than pneumatic mattresses and tents '
Other made-up textile articles , woven, excluding those of categories 113 and 114
Floor cloths , dish cloths , dusters aiid the like other than knitted or crocheted
Textile fabrics and textile articles of a kind commonly used in machinery, or. plant
3 Ounta year
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION 0F GOODS
6 Country of erigiti Pays d'origina
I. the undersigned, certify that the goods described above have been charged against the quantitative limit established for the year shown in box No 3 in respect of the
category shown in bo* No 4 by Ihe provisions regulating trade in textile products with the European Economic Community.
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen d9 transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
11 Ouantity (1) Quantité (1)
. the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic Community.
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d origine
Irland i.
(Trän Van-Thinh)
( Van-Thinh)
Herrn Trän Van-Thinh
Van-Thinh )
• arentêisichnun.'j
. Schweissblätter , Schulterpolster iind andere
b) 0<".virkto He.v/.cn ar.dere als
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et data (TembarqucTnenl - Moysn de
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kmri of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GGOOS
11 Quantity (I) Quantité (1)
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kmd ol packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
I. the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in lorce in the European Economic Community.
3 Quota year
(TrSn Van Thinh)
6 Country of crigin Pays (fonnina
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind ol packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
1 11 Quantity (1) I Quantité (1)
I. the undersigned, certify that the goods described above have been charged against the quantitative limit established for the year shown m box No 3 in respect of the categoryshowninboxNo4bytheprovisionsregulatingtradeintextileproductswththeEuropeanEconomicCommunity. , .
3 (tonta year
7 Country of destination Pays do destination
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind ol packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOOOS
I. the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in Ihe country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic Community.
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d ongine
baby 's )
shorts), andere dan
(bad- of frotieerstof inbegrepen) en chenille weefsels
of pitten
heren
Recommendation for a COUNCIL REGULATION
concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and
on trade in textile products
to the
Council by the Commission )
1 . By Decision of 19 October 1977 t t *1® Council authorised the Ccanission to open negotiations with Macau with a view to the conclusion of an agreement on trade in textile products.
?. In accordance with that Council Decision, and in consultation with the Article 113 Committee, the Commission conducted negotiations with Macau
:"rom 27 October to 13 December 1977
Following the negotiations, a draft Agreement was drawn up.
The draft Agreement:
(i) covers all MPA products of wool, cotton and man-made fibres originating in Macauj
(ii) calls for voluntary restraint , at agreed levels , on exports
to the Community of certain categories of products covered by the Agreement;
(iii) provides for a consultation procedure whereby voluntary restraint measures may be introduced for categories of products not initially subject to limitation, whGre certain thresholds are exceeded;
(iv) establishes a double checking system for categories of products subject to limitation, and an origin control system for all categories covered
by the Agreement;
(v) includes a flexibility clause allowing the transfer of a certain percentage of the quotas from category to category, or from one year to another ;
(vi) in exchange for limitation, contains an undertaking by the Community not to introduce further quantitative restrictions under Article XIX of the GATT or Article 3 of the MPA, or to measures having an effect equivalent
 The Heads or the Delegations initialled the text of the draft Agreement on 13 December 1977» having noted that it correctly
represented the results of the negotiations.
3. In order to ensure that the successful implementation of the Agreement should not be put at risk and to prevent a flood of exports preceding its entry into force , the Community, following the conclusion of the negotiations , proposed to the third countries that until such time as the Agreement entered into force both parties should apply its provisions on an autonomous basis
as from 1 January 1978. These provsions were put into effect for 1978 by Commission Regulation (EEC) N° 3019/77 of 30 December 19771 making the importation into the Community of textile products originating in certain third countries subjeot to authorisation and quantitative limitation (l), as confirmed by Council Regulation (EEC) N# 265/78 of 7 February 1978 (2).
The Commission has laid before the Council a proposal for a regulation containing the definitive measures for the implementation of the Agreement
' by the Community.
4. The Commission considers that the draft Agreement embodies an arrange­ ment which is acceptable to the Community. It therefore recommends that the Council :
(i) approve the Agreement by adopting the regulation, the draft of which is annexed hereto;
(ii) pending approval of the Agreement, take the necessary desioions in connection wii-th the signing thereof.
 Recommendation for a Council Regulation concerning the conclusion of the Agreement "between the European Economic Community and Macau
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economio Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the Recommendation from the Commission,
Whereas the Agreement op trade in textile products negotiated between the European Economio Community and Macau should be approved, "...
The Agreement between the European Economio Community and Macau on trade in textile products, the text of which is annexed to this Regulation, is hereby approved on behalf of the Community.
The President of the Council shall give the notification provided for in Article 18 . of the Agreement .
The date of entry into force of the Agreement will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities,
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and direotly appli­ cable in all Member States .
For the Council
The President
TUK c:i.i:KCIL OP THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, of tli" «>:.o part, and
THE 0 ■'/LHf.'KENT OF XIAXAU oft) •• other part,
DESII'iNfl to promote, with a view to permanent cooperation ar.d in conditions prov. i r. every security for trade, the orderly ar.d equitable development of ti nlu in textile products between the European Ecor.omio Community
RCS< to take the fullest poscible account of the eeyious economic and ROCi I problemsatpresentaffectirpthetextileindustryinbothimportinf tt'.d '-x'»orti.ip cqui'.tries, and in particular, to eliminate real risks of market dipr /.'tioi o.i t))e market of the Community ar.d disruption to the textile
HAVING ftSOAHD to the Arrangement refardijifl International Trade in Textiles (her«: after referred to as "the Ce:.eva Arrangement"), aid in particular
Article 4 thereof; and to the Protocol extending the said Arrangeaev.t together with the Conclusions adopted on 14 Deoember 1977 by the _
HAVa DECIDED to oonolude this Agreement and to this end have designated ao their Plenipotentiaries,
1. The parties recofT-uze and confirm that., subject to the -»rovi ::i ov:« oT this Agreement and vjithout prejudice to their rirhts end obi i i '%•<: under the General Agreement. on Tariffs and Trade, the cond'ic^-. of tf"vr mutual trade in textile products shall be governed by the nrovisionn
of the Geneva Arrangement.
9. Tn remeot of the products covered bv this '•."•recmont , the cr>r ; undertakes not to introduce quantitative restrictions under Article '(TX of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade or Article 3 of the Geneva Arrangement.
3. Measures having equivalent effect to quantitative restrictions on the importation into the Community of the products covered by this
^ roement shall be prohibited .
1. This Agreement shall apply to trade in textile products of cotton, wool and man-made fibres originating in Macau which are listed in Annex I.
2. The description and identification of the products covered by this Agreement are based on the nomenclature of the Common Customs Tariff and on the Nomenclature of Goods for the External
Trade Statistics of the Community and the Statistics of Trade between Member States (NIMEXE).
3. The origin of the products covered by this Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the rules in force in the
The -procedures for control of the origin of the products referred to above are laid down in Protocol A.
Macau agrees for each calendar year to restrain its exports to the Community of the products described in Annex II to the limits set out therein.
Exports of textile products set out in Annex II shall be subject to a double-checking system specified in Protocol A.
1* Imports into the Community 6r textile products covered by this Agreement shail not be subject to the Quantitative limits established
in Annex II, provided that they are declared to be for re-export outside the Community in the same state or after processing, under the administrative system of control set up tot this purpose within the Community.
However, the release for home use of products imported under the conditions referred to above shall be subject to the production of an export licence issued by the Macau authorities, and to proof of origin in accordance with the provisions of Protocol A*
2* Where the authorities in the Community ascertain that imports of textile products have been set off against a quantitative limit established under this Agreement, bilk that the products have subse*- quently been re-exported outside the Community, the authorities concerned shall inform the Macau authorities within four weeks of
the quantities involved and authorize imports of identical quantities of the same products, which shall not be 6et off against the quanti­ tative limit established in Annex II for the eurrent or the following year.
1. In any A/rreement year advance use of a nortion of the cruantitav limit established for the following Agreement year is authorise-: for *nch category of products un to 5f of the quantitative limit for t cxtrrent Agreement year.
Amounts delivered in advance shall be deducted from the corren- nondin/tquantitativelimits etablished for the following Agreement v-r.
?. Carryover to the corresoondin^ truant,itative limit, for the f<->11 "• Vr«eraentyearofamountsnotusedduringany^rreorient. ypnris"'it?r-
rir,pd up to 5? of the quantitative limit for the current Arre*»n»nt ."fr.
Transfers in reflect of categories in Oroun T n--»y not be f-.-» ••>!•/ category excent trannforn between cat*»pori«:« -"nd *°
. 'i;r>v be made un to 5'." of the cruantitative limit, for the cat«»cory v • +}•*■ transfer is made.
In the event that quantitative limits are etablished in nr-nr- dnrcewithth. procedureofArticle6inresnectofanycategoryof
rcroun I other than categories /!,5»6,7 and fi, the Parties to onen consultations in accordance with the provisions of Article 1/:
rith a view to reaching agreement on transfers in resnect of those cM-e^ories.
Transfers into any category in Grouns Tr,TH,JV and v m«y h" rr*"*e from any category or categories in Orouns T,TT,TTT,IV ®nd Y un to 5? of the quantitative limit for the category to which the transfer is made.
 •*» The table of equivalence ar»r>li cable to the transfers referro;' to above is given in Annex I to this Aprrefirient.
5« The increase in any category of r»rod\ic+s resulting from tl.c cumulative annlioati on of the nrovisions in narafranhs 1 ,? and } .-•V>ve during an Agreement year shall not exceed 1*5 •' .
Trior notification shall be tfiven by the authorities of Macau
•n the event of recourse to the nrovisions of paragraphs 1,2 and \ ?bove .
I. Kxnorts of textile products not listed in Annex It to this:
' r-jouent mny be made subject to quantitative limits by K-"*o:iu on liho conditions laid down in the following prx'-gr'«phs.
£ . W .ere the Coiomunity finds , under the system of administrative control set up, that the level of imports of products in a given c-'tegory not listed in Annex II originating in II*ic»u exceeds, in r."l-tion to the preceding year's total imports into the Community
products in that category , the following rates :
- for categories of products in Group I, 0.2,j;
- for categories of products in Group II, 1.2,C;
- for categories of products in Group III, 17 or 7, 4,»»
.t z.\y request the opening of consultations in accordance with the ••"•;-;c«iire described in Article 14 of this Agreement , with a vlev: to
■ nilivs agreement on an appropriate restraint level i'or the pro>ta.;»^ :c;h category.
.Ending a mutually satisfactory solution, II.ou undertake:;, from d te of notification of the request for consultations , to s :sper.d
or 1Lr.iit at the level indicated by the Community exoorts of products r t:xe category.in question to the Community or to the region or
:• j :lons of the Community nnrket specified by the Community.
iho Community shall authorize the importation of products of ti.e jrici category shipped from Mtcau before the ante on which the request ; or consultations was submitted .
i. Should the Parties be unable in the course of consultations to rcvvi :!" tisfootory solution within the period specified in /.rticle 1 J. os* tn-s
•roonent , the JJommunLty nhr.ll hove the right to Introduce a ou.mti. i..- ti /.. *.t sr. annual level not lower than that reached by imports of
pro.:'iitb of the category in question and referred to in the notification of the request for consultations.
 The annual level so fixed shall be revised upwards after consultations in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14, with a view to fulfilling the conditions sot out in paragraph 2, should the trend of total imports into the Community of the products in question make this necessary.
5. The limits introduced under paragraph 2 or paragraph 4 may in no case "be lower than the level of imports of products in that category originating in Macau in 1976.
6. Quantitative limits may also be established by the Community on a regional basis in accordance with the provisions of Protocol B,
7. The annual growth rate for the quantitative limits introduced under this Article shall be determined in accordance with the pro­ visions of Protocol C.
8. The provisions of this Article shall not apply where the percen tages specified in paragraph 2 have been reached as a result of fall in total imports into the Community, and not as a result of an in­ crease in exports of products originating in Macau.
9. In the event of the -provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article being applied, Macau undertakes to issue export licences for products covered by contracts concluded before the introduction of the quanti­ tative limit, up to the volume of the quantitative limit fixed for the current year.
10. For the purpose of applying the provisions of paragraph 2, the Community undertakes to provide the Macau authorities, before 31 March of each year, with the preceding year's statistics on imports of all textile products covered by this Agreement , broken down by supplying country and Community Member State.
11. The provisions of this Agreement which concern exports of . products subject to the quantitative limits established in Annex II
shall also apply to products for which quantitative limits are introduced under this Article.
 Section II : Administration of the Agreement
1. Macau undertakes to supply the Community with precise statis­ tical information on all export licences issued by the Macau autho­
rities for all categories of textile products subject to the quan­ titative limits set out in Annex II.
2. The Community shall likewise transmit to the Macau authorities precise statistical information on import authorizations or documents issued by the Community authorities, and import statistics for pro­ ducts covered by the system of administrative control referred to in
3. The information referred to above shall, for all categories of
products, be transmitted before the end of the second month following *
the quarter to which the statistics relate-.
4* Should it be found on analysis of the information exchanged that there are significant discrepancies between the returns for exports and those for imports, consultations may be initiated in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 14 of this Agreement.
Any amendment to the Common Customs Tariff or Nimexe, made in accordance with the procedures in force in the Community, concerning categories of products covered by this Agreement or any decision relating to the classification of goods shall not have the effect of reducing any quantitative limit established in Annex II .
Macau shall endeavour to ensure that exports of textile products subject to quantitative limits are spaced out as evenly
as possible over the year, due account being taken, in particular, of seasonal factors.
However, should recourse be had to the provisions of Article 18 (3)» the quantitative limits established in Annex II shall be reduced on a pro rata basis.
Should there be an excessive concentration of imports on any product belonging to a category subject to quantitative limits under this Agreement, the Community may request consultations in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 14 of this Agreement with a view to remedying this situation.
1. Portions of the quantitative limits established in Annex II not used in a Member State of the Community may be allocated to another Member State in accordance with the procedures in force in the Community. The Community undertakes to reply within four weeks to any request made by Macau for such reallocation. It is understood that any reallocation so effected shall not j)e subject to the limits fixed under the flexibility provisions set out in Article 5 of this Agreement.
2. Should it appear in any given region of the Community that additional supplies are required, the Community may, where measures taken pursuant to paragraph 1 above are inadequate to cover those requirements, authorize the importation of amounts greater than those stipulated in Annex II.
After application of this Agreement to the categories of products in Group I for a period of two years , the quantitative limits shall be revised by common accord, upwards or downwards, in the light of consumption in the Community.
1. Macau and the Community undertake to refrain from discrimination in the allocation of export licences and import authorizations or documents r&spectively.
2. In implementing this Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall take care to maintain the traditional commercial practices and trade flows 'between the Community and Macau.
3. Should either Party find that the application of this Agreement is disturbing existing commercial relations between importers in the- Community and suppliers in Macau, consultations shall be started promptly, in accordance with the procedure specified in /article 14 of this Agreement, with a view to remedying this situation.
1. The special consultation procedures referred to in this Agreement shall be governed by the following rules:
- any request for consultations shall be notified in writing to the other Party;
- the request for consultations shall be followed within a reasonable period (and in any case not later than fifteen days following the notification) by a statement setting out the reasons and circumstances which, in the opinion of the requesting Party, justify the submission of such
- the Parties shall enter into consultations within one month at the latest of notification of the- request, with a view to reaching agreement 'or a mutually acceptable conclusion within one month at the latest.
2. If necessary, at the request of either of the Parties and in conformity with the provisions of the Geneva Arrangement, consulta­ tions shall be held on any problems arising from the application of this Agreement. Any consultations held under this Article shall be approached by both Parties in a spirit of cooperation and with a desire to reconcile the difference between them.
1. Macau and the Community undertake to refrain from discrimination in the allocation of export licences and import authorizations or documents r&spectively.
2. In implementing this Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall take care to maintain the traditional commercial practices and trade flows "between the Community and Macau.
3. Should either Party find that the application of this Agreement is disturbing existing commercial relations between importers in
the Community and suppliers in Macau, consultations shall bo started promptly, in accordance with the procedure specified in Article 14 of this Agreement, with a view to remedying this situation.
1. The special consultation procedures referred to in this Agreement shall be governed by the following rules:
- any request for consultations shall be notified in writing to the other Party;
- the request for consultations shall be followed within a reasonable period (and in any case not later than fifteen days following the notification) by a statement setting out the reasons and circumstances which, in the opinion of the requesting Party, justify the submission of such
- the Parties shall enter into consultations within one month at the latest of notification of the- request, with a view to reaching agreement 'or a mutually acceptable conclusion within one month at the latest.
2. If necessary, at the request of either of the Parties and in conformity with the provisions of the Geneva Arrangement, consulta­ tions shall be held on any problems arising from the application of this Agreement. Any consultations held under this Article shall be approached by both Parties in a spirit of cooperation and with a desire to reconcile the difference between them.
 Section III : Transitional and Final Provisons
1. The provisions of this Agreement shall not apply to imports of products subject to quantitative limits in 1977» provided such products are shipped 'before 1 January 1978,
2. Products originating in Macau which become subject to quanti- . tative limits from 1 January 1978 only, in pursuance of this Agree­ ment, may be imported into the Community without the production of
an export licence until *1 March 1978, provided such products arc- shipped before 1 January 1978.
By way of derogation from Articles 2 and 8 of Protocol A, the Community undertakes to issue import authorizations or docu­
ments without the production of an export licence or certificate of origin in the form prescribed in the said Article 8 for products originating in Macau subject to quantitative limits under this
Agreement, provided such products are shipped in the period from 1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978 and do not exceed 40^ of the quantitative limits applicable to the products. This period may be extended by agreement reached between the Parties in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of this Agreement.
The Community shall supply the Macau authorities without delay with precise statistical information on import authorizations or documents issued under this Article; the said authorities shall set the corresponding amounts off against the quantitative limits established in Annex II.for the products in-question for 1978.
This Agreement shall apply to the territories within which the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community is applied and under the conditions laid down in that Treaty on the one hand, and to the territory of Macau on the other hand.
1. This Agreement sh-Ul enter into force on the firnt day of trio
nonth following the date on which the Contracting Parties notify etch other of the completion of the procedures nerp3sary for tr i a nurnose. It shall "be anolicable until 31 December 19"2.
2. This Agreement shall apply with effect fro-n 1 January 197P«
3. Either Party may at any time propose modifications to this
Agreement or denounce it provided that at least ninety days'
notice is given. In the latter event the Agreement shall come to an end on the expiry of the period of notice.
t\• The Annexes and Protocols to this Agreement and the excha.-v-c;; of letters shall form an integral nart thereof.
This Agreement shall be drawn up in two copies in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German, Italian and Portuguese languages, each of these texts being equally authentic.
The competent authorities of Macau shall issue an export licence in respect of all consignments from Ilacau of textile products referred to in Annex II , up to the relevant quantitative limits as may be modified by Articles 5 and 11 of the Agreement.
The export licence shall conform to the' model aimexed to this .•
Protocol. It must certify, inter alia, that the quantity of the product in question has been set off against the quantitative limit prescribed for the category of the product in question.
The competent Community authorities must be notified forthwith of the withdrawal or alteration of any export licence already issued.
Exports shall be set off against the quantitative limits established for the year in which shipment of the goods has been effected, even if the export licence is issued after such shipment.
Importation into the Community of textile products subject to quantitative limits shall be subject to the presentation of an import authorization or document.
The competent Community authorities shall issue such import authorization c document automatically within five working days of the presentation by the importer of a certified copy of the corresponding export licence.
The import -authorization or document shall bs valid for six months .
1* If the competent Community authorities find that the total quantities covered by export licences issued by Macau for a particu­ lar category in any Agreement year exceeds the quantitative limit established in Annex II for that category, as may be modified by Article 5 and 11 of the Agreement, the said authorities may suspend the further issue of import authorizations or documents . In this event, the competent Community authorities shall immediately inform the authorities of Macau and the special consultation procedure,
set out in Article 14 of the Agreement' shall be initiated forthwith.
 2. Exports of Macau origin not covered by Macau export licences issued in accordance with the provisions of this Protocol may be refused the issue of import authorizations or documents by the competent Community authorities. However, if the imports of such products are allowed into the Community by the competent Community authorities, the quantities involved shall not be set off against the appropriate limits set out in Annex II without the express agreement of Macau.
1. Products originating in Macau for export to the Community in accordance with the arrangements established by this Agreement
shall be accompanied by a certificate of Macau origin conforming to the model annexed to this Protocol.
2. The certificate of origin shall be issued by the competent governmental authorities of Macau if the products in question can be considered products originating in that country within the meaning of the relevant rules in force in the Community.
The discovery of slight discrepancies between the statements made in the certificate of origin and those made in the documents produced to the customs office for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for importing the product shall not ipso facto cast doubt upon the statements in the certificate.
1. Subsequent verification of certificates of origin shall be carried, out at random, or whenever the competent Community autho­ rities have reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the certifi-' cat© or as to the accuracy of the information regarding the true origin of the products in question.
 In such cases the competent authorities in the Community shall return the certificate of origin or a copy thereof to the competent governmental authority in Macau, giving, where appropriate, the reasons of form or substance for an enquiry. If the invoice has
been submitted, such invoice or a copy thereof shall be attached
to the certificate or its copy# The authorities shall also forward any information that has been obtained suggesting that the particulars given on the said certificate are inaccurate.
2* The results of the subsequent verifications carried out in accordance with paragraph 1 above shall be communicated to the competent authorities of the Community within three months at the latest.
3. For the purpose of subsequent verification of certificates of origin, copies of the certificates as well as any export documents referring to them shall be kept for at least two years by the com­ petent governmental authority in Macau.
4* Recourse to the random verification procedure specified in this Article iust not constitute an obstacle to the release for
home use of the products* in- question.
The. provisions of this Title shall not apply to goods covered by a certificate of origin Form A completed in accordance with the relevant Community rules in order to qualify for generalized tariff preferences.
Title III : Form and production of export licences and certificates of origin, and
The export licence and the certificate of origin may comprise additional copies duly indicated as such. They shall be made out
in English or French. If they are completed by hand, entries must be in ink and in printscript.
These documents shall measure 210 x 297 mm. The paper used must be white sized writing paper not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/m . Each part shall have a printed guilloche-pattern background making any falsification by mechanical or chemical means apparent to the eye.
Each document shall bear a serial number-, whether or not printed, by which it can be identified.
The export licence and the certificate of origin may be issued after the shipment of the products to which they relate. In such cases they shall bear either'the endorsement "delivre a posteriori" or the endorsement "issued" retrospectively"..
In the event of theft, loss or destruction of an export licence or a certificate of origin, the exporter may apply to the competent governmental authority which issued the document for a duplicate to be made out on the basis of the export documents in his possession. The duplicate licence or certificate so issued shall bear the endor­ sement "duplicata".
The duplicate must bear the date of the original licence or certificate .
The competent governmental authorities in Macau shall satisfy themselves that the goods exported correspond to the statements given in the export licence and certificate of origin.
Macau shall send the Commission of the European Communities the names and addresses of the governmental authorities competent to issue export licences and certificates of origin, together with specimens of the Stamps used "by these authorities.
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
11 Quantity (1) Quantity (1)
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above have been charged against the quantitative limit established (or the year shown in box No 3 in respect o( the category shown in box No 4 by the provisions regulation trade in textile products with the European Economic Community.
3 Quota yeaf
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
tf t
I Place and date of shipment - Msans of transport Lieu et date (rembarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF G000S
11 Quantity (I) Quantité ( 1)
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown n box No 6. n accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic Community.
 In accordance with the nrocedures set out in oaragr^nhs 2
and 4 of Article 6 of the Agreement, a ouantitative limit m*y be fixed on a regional basis where imports of a f:iven nroduct :nto nny ro/von of the Community exceed, in relation to the amounts j:iven
in oararTaoh 2 of the said Article 6, the following regional nercentafjes :
Oermany Bénélux France Italy Denmark Ireland UK
 The annual growth rate for the quantitative limits introduced under Article 6 of the Agreement shall be determined as follows?
(a) for products in Group I :
- the rate shall be fixed at 0.5% per year for a product in category 1 or 2,
- the rate shall be fixed at 496 per year for a product in category 3.
(b) for products in categories falling within Group II, III, IV or V, the growth rate shall be fixed by agreement between the Parties in accordance with the consultation
procedure established in Article 14 of the Agreenent . Such growth rate may in no case be lower thnn the highest rate applied to corresponding products under bilateral agreements concluded under the Geneva Arrangement between the Community and other third countries having a level of trade equal to or comparable with that of Macau.
Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two Parties on 13 December 1977•
Pursuant to Article 16 of the said Agreement, I should be grateful if you would confirm that Macau shall not be bound to suspend the issue of an export licence or certificate of origin during the period of 1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978 in a form other than that prescribed in Article 8 of Protocol A to the said Agreement.
Commission of the European Communities, Manhattan Center,
I hereby confirm receipt of the following letter:
"Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two Parties on 13 December 1977.
Pursuant to Article 16 of the said Agreement , I should be grateful if you would confirm that Ilacau shall not be bound to suspend the issue of an export licence or certificate of origin during the period of 1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978 in a fcrm other than that prescribed in Article 8 of Protocol A to the said Agreement.M
I confirm that Macau shall not be bound to suspend the issue of documents mentioned in the foregoing letter during the period of 1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978.
I hereby confirm receipt of the following letter:
"Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two Parties on 13 December 1977•
Pursuant to Annex II of the said agreement, the Community reserves the right to make adjustments, from 1 January 1979» to the distribution between Member States of the quantitative limits established in Annex II to the Agreement , it being understood that in no case shall the Community level of the limits in question be reduced. Macau shall be informed at least six months in advance of any such adjustments. Should it appear that such adjustments might- create difficulties in regard to the flows of trade between the Community and Macau, consultations shall be opened promptly, in accordance with the procedure specified in article 14 of the Agree­ ment, with a View to remedying these problems.
I "would be grateful if you would confirm your agreement to the foregoing."
I confirm my agreement to the content of the foregoing letter.
Commission of the European Communities, Manhattan Center,
Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two Parties on 13 December 1977*
Pursuant to Annex II of the said Agreement , the Community reserves the right to make adjustments, from 1 January 1979* to the distribution between Member States of the .quantitative limits established in Annex II to the Agreement, it being understood that in no case shall the Community level of the limits in question be reduced. Macau shall be informed at least six months in advance of any such adjustments. Should it appear that such adjustments might create difficulties in regard to the flows of trade between the Community and Macau, consultations shall be opened promptly, in accordance with the procedure specified in article 14 of the
"Agreement, with a view to remedying these problems.
I would be grateful if you would confirm your agreement to the foregoing.
concerning Article 2 (3 / of the Agreement
" The Community declares that , in acwrdanrn v:?th th*» '■or«un-i ♦;.* mlcs on ori/rin referred to in Article 2 (3) of the Aproor- «n+. , rmy ■-•n^-.vlments to the said rules will remain bnsed ur»on critoria no*
TTniirin^:, in order to confer oripvvitinr status, nore extensive rat ions than those which constitute » single comnlete nrocess .
'•■"or the Eurooean Economic Community
The^Mission of Portugal to the European Communities presents its compliments to the Directorate General for External Relations of the Commission of the European Communities and has the honour to refer to the Agreement in textile products negotiated between
Macau and the Community and initialled on 15 December 1977.
The Mission wishes to inform the Directorate General that whilst awaiting the completion of the necessary procedures for the conclusion and the coming into force of the Agreement , the Government of Macau is prepared to allow the provisions of the
Agreement to apply de facto from 1st January 1978 if the Community is disposed to do likewise.
The Mission would be grateful if the Community would confirm its agreement to the foregoing.
The Mission would like also to propose that the present note and the Community's note in reply shall constitute an Agreement between the Government of Macau and the Community.
The Mission of Portugal to the European Communities avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Directorate General for External Relations the assurance of its highest consideration.
 The Directorate General for External Relations of the Commission
presents its compliments to the Mission of Portugal to the European Communities and has the honour to refer to the Mission's Note of today reading as follows?
"The Mission of Portugal to the European Communities presentes its compliments to the Directorate General for External Relations of the Commission of the European Communities and has the honour to refer to the Agreement in textile products negotiated between Macau and the Community and initialled on 13 December 1977.
The Mission wishes to inform the Directorate General that whilst awaiting the completion of the necessary procedures for the conclusion and the coming into force of the Agreement, the Government of Macau is prepared to allow the provisions of the Agreement to apply de facto from 1st January 1978 if the Community is disposed to do likewise.
The Mission would be grateful if the Community would confirm its agreement to the foregoing.
The Mission would like also to propose that the present note
and the Community's note in reply shall constitute an Agreement between the Government of Macau and"the Community.
The Mission of Portugal to the European Communities avails itself
of this opportunity to renew to the Directorate General for External Relations the assurance of its highest consideration".
The Directorate of External Relations has the honour to confirm to the Mission that it is agreed on the content of the foregoing Note
and considers therefore that the exchange of Notes constitutes an agreement between the Government of Macau and the Community.
The Directorate General for External Relations avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Mission of Portugal to the European Communities the assurance of its highest consideration.
Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled between the two parties on 1^ December 1977•
Macau hereby notifies the Community that during the currency of the Agreement, it will not invoke the provisions of the Geneva
Arrangement as thay concern handloom fabrics of the cottage industry or hand-made cottngo industry products made of such handloom fabrics , or traditional folklore handicraft textile products, as provided for in Article 12 (3) of the said Arrangement, without the agreement of the Community.
I should be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter .
Commission of the European Communities, Manhattan Center,
I hereby confirm the receipt of the following letter:
♦'Please refer to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Macau on trade in textile products initialled betwesn the two parties on 13 December 1977*
Macau • hereby notifies the Community that during ths currency of the Agreement , it will r.ot invoke the provisions of the Geneva Arrangement as they concern handloom fabrics of the
. cottage industry or hand-made cottage industry products made of
such handloom fabrics, or traditional folklore handicraft textile products, as provided for in Article 12 (3) of the said Arrangement, without the- agreement of the Community.
I should be grateful' if .you would acknowledge receipt of this . letter".
Cotton yarn not put up for retail eale
jWoven fabrics of cotton, other than gauze,
terry fabrics , narrow woven fabrics ,
pile other
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of synthetic fibres (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow
woven fabrics, pile fabrics (including terry fabrics) and chenille fabrios
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Shirts, T-shirts, lightweight roll or turtle neck pullovers, undervest3 and'the like, knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised , other than babies' garments ,
of cotton or synthetio textile fibres a) T-shirts eto
cardigans , bed-jackets and jumpers , knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised
Shirts other than T-shirts Chandails , pull-overs , slip-overs ,
Ken 's and boys' woven breeches , shorts trousers (including slacks); women's,
girls' and infants' woven trousers and
Blouses and shirt-blouses, knitted or crocheted (not elastio nor rubberised), or woven, for women, girls and infants
Msn's and boys' shirts, woven
Woven cotton terry fabriCB; toilet and kitchen linen of woven cotton terry fabrics
Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or oroch^tod, not elastic nor rubberised, impre­
gnated or coated with artificial plastic material a
Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or crocheted not elastic nor rubberised, other than those of category 10
/tonkingn, under stockings, cocks, ankle-, rocks, pockettec and the like, knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised, other than women's stockings of synthetic textile fibres
f'>n's and boys' woven overcoats, raincoats and other coats, cloaks and capes, other than those of category 14 A
nen's and boy's underpants and briefs, women's girls' and infants' (other than babies' ), knickers and briefs, knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised, of cotton or synthetic
Wen's and boys' coats of impregnated, coated, covered or laminated woven fabric
Women's, girls' and infants' coats of impregnated , ooated , covered or laminated woven f'.brie
Men 's and boys 1 than shirts
Women's, girls' and infants' woven overcoats , raincoats and other coats , cloaks and. capes , jackets and blazers , other than garments of category 15 A
Ken's and boys' woven suits (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three nieces , which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
Ken's and boys' woven jackets and blazers
Handkerchiefs of woven cotton fabrics, not more than 15 EQA/kg
other
Yarn of discontinuous or waste synthetic fibres, not put up for retail sale
la)dont acrylique of which acrylic
/arn of discontinuous or waste regenerated . fibres, not put up for retail sale
u_j Men's and boys1 pyjamas, knitted or crocheted of cotton or of synthetio textile fibres
Women's, girls* and infants' (other than babies' ) knitted or crocheted pyjamas and nightdresses , of cotton or synthetic fibres
Women's, girls* and infants' (other them babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted dresses
Women's, girls' and infants', (other than babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted skirts , including divided skirts
^Knitted or crocheted trousers (except shorts] other than babies'
Women's, girls' and infants* (other than babies' ) woven suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
Women's, girls' and infants' woven pyjamas (arid nightdresses
Women's, girls1 and infants' (other than babies' ) woven undergarments other than pyjamas and nightdresses
Brassieres , woven , knitted or crocheted .
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of polyethylene or polypropylene , less than 3 m wide; woven sacks of such strip or the like '
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of
polyethylene or polypropylene 3 m or more wide •
(other than terry fabrics of cotton and
Woven fabrics of synthetio textile fibres (continuous), other than those for tyres
and those containing elastomerio yarn
of whioh other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrios of regenerated textile fibres (continuous) other than those for tyres and those containing elastomerio yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Knitted or crocheted synthetic curtain fabrics including net curtain fabric
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow woven fabrics , pile fabrics
( including terry fabrics ) and chenille fabri ca
of which other than unbleached or bleachad
Woven table linen , toilet and kitchen linen other than of cotton terry fabric
Woven curtains (other than net curtains) and furnishing articles
Tableau dts équivalentas Tfble of équivalence
250 turns per m and single non–textured yarn *>f any acetate
(Yarn of man-made fibres (continuous) put up |ror retail sale
1 Yarn of synthetic textile fibres ( continuous ) ! not put up for retail sale, other than non-
I textured single yarn untwisted or with a
twist of not more than 50 turns per m
Yam of regenerated textile fibres
If continuous ), not put up for retail sale ,
other than single yarn of viscose rayon hjr;twist®d or with a twist of not more than
I I 'oven fabrics of synthetic textile fibres |(continuous), containing elastomeric yarn
[Woven fabrics of synthetic textile fibres l(ooritinuous), containing elastomeric yarn
Carded or combed sheep's or lamb's wool or other fine animal hair
Yarn of carded sheep's or lamb's wool (wollen
Ttblatu des fqulnlenees I Tfblt of «quivalent* J
yarn ) or of carded . fine up for retail sale
t Yarn, of combed sheep's or lamb's wool (•worsted yarn) or of combed fine animal hair, not put up for retail sale
i IYarn of sheep's or lamb's wool or of fine
animal hair, put up for retail sale »
Woven fabrics of sheep 's of fire animal hair
ïipis a points noues ou enroulés, meme
Coton carde ou peigné . Carded or combed cotton
•Re^enerr.ted textile fibres (discontinuous or
carded or combed
Synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded or combed
~!=rr of synthetic textile fibres '3iFcor.tir.uous or waste) put up for retail sale
"ochunacks" and "Karamanie" rugs and the like 'made up or not); floor coverings of felt
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres
(discontinuous or waste) put up for retail s sale
Carpets , carpetting and up or not )
ι carpeting, rugs, mats and matting, and "'Kelem"
Tapisseries , faites à .la main Tapestries , hand made
otherwise ) on boJ;h edges , other than
Narrow woven fabrics not exceeding 30 cm in width with selvedges (woven, gummed or made
and the
other knitted
(but not including fabrics ),
r-.hape or size;
Chenille yarn ( including flock chenille yarn ), .^iasoel yarn (other than metallised yarn and pimped horsehair yarn); braids and ornamental trinmi.'igs in the piece ; tassels , pompons and the like;
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including
woven, knitted or crocheted fabrics), fi&ured ;
hand or mechanically made lace , in the piece , or in motifs;
Embroidery, in the piece, in strips or in motifs
badges and the like , not
j embroidered, in the piece, in strips or cut to
Tablatu das Iqutnlences I Trtle of nulvalene» J
oaovt choutéo
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised , of synthetic textile fibres , oortaining elastofibres ; knitted or crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
Tace and long-pile fabric (imitation fur), kr.it"ted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised, of synthetic textile fibres
unitted or crocheted fabrics, not elastic nor
rubberised , other 38 Aj 63 and 64
than
of categories
Iravellin# rugs and blankets 1•
: Clothin/r accessories and other articles (except garments), knitted or crocheted, not • elastic nor rubberised; articles (other than
bsl.hin;: costumes ), of knitted or 'crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
'Babies' under garments of knitted or crocheted fabrics , not elastic nor rubberised
Women's, girls* and infants' (other than babies' ) suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces which are ordered, packed, consigned and normally sold together)
of knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Track suits of knitted or crocheted fabric ,
girls' and infants' knitted or petticoats and slips , of textile fibre , other than
Babies' knitted out<
not elastic nor rubberised !
Men's and boys' suits (including co­ ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces, which are ordered, packed, confined and normally sold together) of knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised
Men's and boys' woven industrial and occupational clothing; women's, girls' and infants' woven aprons, smock-overalls and other industrial and occupational clothing (whether or not also suitable for domestic use)
Women's stockings of synthetic textile fibre
i>Ien's and boys' woven bath robes, dressing ptowtis, smoking jackets and similar indoor wear and other outergarments, except garments of categories 6, 14A, 14B, 16, 17» 21, 76and79
Women'3, girls' and infants* woven bath 1 robes , dressing gowns , bed jackets and
sirn : T^.r- indoor wear and other outer garments , "xent £rarrcon+3 of categories 6, 7i 15A,
'JnAer garments , other than babies' , knitted, or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , of wool fine animal hair or regenerated ■'extilc fibres
(."titer garments knitted or crocheted , not
'ilap.l r. nor rubberised, of categories •}, 7, 26, 74 and 75 "
other than garments 27,. 28, 71, 72, 73, "
-.nd t.h^ like , other than knitted or orochr.ted
knitted or crocheted
ties and cravats ,
other than
Corsets, corset–belts, suspender–belts, braces , suspenders , garters and the like (including such articles of knitted or crocheted fabric), other than brassi&reB,
whether or not elastic
Gloves , mittens , mitts , stockings , socks and soclcettes , not being knitted or crocheted goods
I'idr; up accessories for articles of apparel ( for example , dress shields , shoulder and othor pads , belts , muffs , sleeve protectors ,
pockets), other than knitted or crocheted
Handkerchiefs of woven cotton fabric of a value of more than 15 EUA/Kg
TufeU of tjulvalenet ,
Tfbla of m)u1valent*
i-iwinin% and articles of wadding; textile flock and dust and mill neps
.Saokn and Dags, of a kind used for the packing of good:?, of woven fabric , -other than made from polyethylene or polypropylene strip
Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, of synthetic
Woven fabrics of man-made textile fibres and rubberised textile woven fabrics, for tyres
i Felt and articles of felt, whether or not 1
impregnated or coverings
coated ,
other than
Borvie'? fibre fabrics , similar bonded yarn fabrics , and articles of euch fabrics ,
w.iethsr or not impregnated or coated, other
than clothing and clothing accessories 1
Nets and netting made of twine, cordage or
rope , and made up fishing net3 of cordage or rope
Other articles-, made from yam , twine , cordage , rope or cables , other than textile fabrics , articles made from such fabrics and articles
of categoiy
Tortile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous substances, of a kind used for the oute-r
covers of books and the like ; tracing prepared painting canvas ; buckram and
similar fabrics for hat foundations and similar uses
Textile fabrics impregnated , coated , ere red or laminated with preparations of cellulose derivatives or of other artificial plastic
Twine, cordage ropes and cables, plaited or not, other than of synthetic textile fibres
Linoleum and materials prepared on a textile base in a similar ranner to linoleum,whether or not cut to shape or of a kind used as floor coverings; floor coverings consisting of a coating applied on a textile base, cut to shape or not
Rubberised textile fabrics other than rubberised knitted or crocheted goods, excluding fabrics for tyres
Textile fabrics, impregnated or co'ated, other than thorse of categories 99» 100, 102 and
103; painted canvas being theatrical scenery, studio backcloths or the like
Elastic fabrics and trimmings (other than knitted or crocheted goods) consisting of texiilo materials combined with rubber threads
wicks, of woven, plaited or knitted textile materials, for lamps, stoves, lighters, c-mdles and the like; tubular knitted
gas–mantle fabric and incandescent gas mantles
Textile hosepiping and similar tubing , vath or without lining, armour or accessories of other materials
Transmission , conveyor or elevator belts belting , of .textile material , whether or not strengthened with metal or other material
Camping soods , woven, other than pneumatic mattresses and tents
Other made-up textile articles , woven, excluding those of categories 113 and 114
Floor cloths , dish cloths , dusters and the like other than knitted or crocheted
Textile fabrics and textile articles of a kind commonly used in machinery or plant
V/oven tarpaulins , sails, awings
Description of produota
b) Knitted shirts other than T shirts
Vosta's vovaa and knitted tolouaea
Description of producto A'c.'ncn'a coate! r^ir!C>»*3
Koaen^s overcoats, raincoats and other coats. cloaks and jackets
Ken's woven Jacketa and Mazers
''en's woven underwear other than !chirt»
Tarns of discontinuous synthetic fibres not for retail sile
gory Description of products
or whichtaorylic fibres tea** knitted pyjaoas
somen's loiitted nightwear
Verven and knitted dresses
ether
lirea toilet and kitchen linen t-«a fras terry fabrio
8 Place and date of shipm?nl - Mwns ol transport Lieu et date d"embarquement - Moyen de transport
6 Country of origin Pays (Torigins
I 9 Supplementary détails
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind ol packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
11 Quantity (1) Quanta^ (1)
I. the imtoisned. certify that the goods described above, have been cfcarn-d artamst Me nuantitatwe Pm« established for the year -shown n box No 3 m respect ef the category shown in box No 4 by the provisions regulating trade m textile promts rrth'the European Economic Community.
I. the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6. in accordance vrith the provisions in force in the European Economic Community.
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kmd of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
11 Quantity (1) Quantité (1)
Pri«ii4 by WilHUM KGhur VCALAB, 4930 Mlndtn 1, Pttlfacb 1130, Brucktnkopf 2* – Ftriarti Republic of Gtrmany
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
uld
Droiervavet stof af "bomuld
meret, fro .
D;rkke to j ,
