In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(presented, "by Mr Davignon)
Subject: Proposed Council Directive amending Directive 73/173/EEC of
4 June 1973 on the classification! packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations (solvents). Amendments pursuant to Article 149(2) of the EEC Treaty.
On 12 January 1978t *the Commission sent the Council the above mentioned proposed Direotive (COM(77) 718 final).
When consulted in accordance with Article 100 of the Treaty, the European Parliament proposed several amendments.
1. The modified wording proposed in the first sentence of the second recital and in the third recital are acceptable to the Commission.
In the opinion of Parliament, a better definition is needed, of the term "solvent". This addition to Article 2 is also acceptable to the Commission.
On the other hand, the requested amendment in the title of the Directive and the first recital is not acceptable, because this pro­ posed Directive covers preparations based on dangerous solvents, and not solvents in the form of pure substances which are already covered by another Directive.
The amendment _ in the sixth recital is also unacceptable to the Commission because the term "basic Directive" is never used in the
field of dangerous substances and preparations and is certain to cause confusion .
Th6 amendment proposed in Article 5 and in the corresponding fifth recital, introduces a requirement that the packaging be accompanied, by directions
for first aid in the event of wrong use, has always been rejected, by the Commission.
As it has had occasion to point out to Parliament more than once in the course of examinations of the Directives on dangerous substances and pre­ parations, the Commission considers this requirement to be contrary to medical ethics .
In addition, in certain Member States (Germany and France) the law prohibits
the giving of medical advice on labels for, in a great many cases, persons suffering from toxic effects tend to regard the antidote as a sufficient cure and do not consult a doctor. Moreover, the name of the antidote may vary from one country to another and the manufacturer attaching the label to the package does not always know in what country the product will be
sold or finally used.
It should be noted that the provisions of Article 5(2,b) require that the
names of all toxic, harmful or corrosive ingredients contained in the
preparation must be indicated on the label , accompanied by safety advice according to the degree of toxicity. On the basis of these indications, doctors may either themselves draw conclusions enabling the required measures to be taken or, in the case of doubt, contact the poisons
Decision requested of the CoitHBission*
- to approve the amendments shown in the draft letter addressed to the President of the Council,
- to forward the letter to the President of the Council.
incorporate the following changes, proposed by the European Parliament/in its proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive No 73/173/EEC
on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the classification/ packaging and labelling of dangerous substances (solvents) Doc. C0MC77) 718 final/ transmitted to the Council on 12 January 1978.
1. The first sentence of the second recital is replaced by the following text :
" Whereas the Directive will henceforth apply not only to mixtures of two or more dangerous solvents but also to mixtures of solvents with other non-dangerous substances when they are intended for use as solvents; "
2. The text of the third recital is replaced by the following text :
" Whereas it is desirable that the scope of the Directive be more clearly defined with respect to other Directives relating to products which likewise contain dangerous solvents; "
3. Article 2 is supplemented by the following paragraph :
" 3. The following paragraph shall be added after Article 1 (4) :
5 . In the purposes of this Directive " solvent " means any dangerous liquid capable of taking up other substances to form a single
Please accept. Sir. the assurance of my highest consideration.
I have the honour to inform you that the Commission has decided to
Council of the European Communities .
