In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
Parliament's report on the problems facing small • and medium–si&ed enterprises in the Community (Doc. 5^8/77) is of outstanding quality, - "both in respect of its oontezrt and of the method adopted.
Accordingly, the Commission fully . endorsesthe main lines of the resulting Resolution* The Commission's only reservation concerns the way in which conoerted discussion with the representatives of "
small and medium-sized enterprises should be organized*
This memorandum summarizes the Commissions main observations on the
Resolution* It begins by outlining the objectives and the principles which the Commission intends to follow in this field and then comments
on the main points raised in the Resolution*
There are small and medium-sised enterprises (SHEs) in all sectors of industry , oommeroe and servioes * It Is estimated that outside agriculture and Government service about two-thirds of the working population work in these firms* The SMEs are therefore "typical" firms and in no way exceptions to ."the general rule* ■ „ .
It is the SMEs - those already operating or those being set up - whioh
give that flexibility whioh is essential to an economio system if it is to be able to meet as well as possible the needs of our societyf whioh are varied, oomplex and oonstantly changing.
Speoifio measures to help the SMEs will never get to the root of the
problems the SMEs have to oontend with if the general framework does -not encourage the establishment and expansion of these firms*
The Commission^ first objeotive ia therefore to ensure that the economio, legal, tax and sooial framework enables existing firms to
develop and adapt constantly to changes and allows of the establishment
and growth of new firms. , ++
Because of their limited siee _ a large number of SMEs have special problems preventing then from playing effectively their proper role in the economio system*
The Commission's second fundamental objective will therefor be to help the SMEs to overoome these problems by the most appropriate neans.
In the pursuit of these two fundamental objectives, the Commission's measures will be guided by the following basio prinoiplest
(i) .Integration of__th0_SMEs and the ^art^sanat^ i^njall^the^j^lioiea^
The SMEs and the artisan or oraft sector are influenced by a very wide rangeofpoliciesandspecifioprogrammes. EachCommunitypolicyand programme liable to affect the SMEs or the artisan sector must therefore be established and examined with due regard to the SMEs* special features and needs so as to ensure that they are not harmed, whether direotly or indirectly, or merely because the implications of planned measures have not been properly thought out.
(ii) Adopt_ion_of a nmH_ifaoet_a£proach %
The SMEs are very diverse in nature and have speoial problems owing to their limited eiee.
 Some of these problems are common to all the SMEa, for example the burden of administrative formalities and procedures, and sooial security costs.
Other problems arise for only oertain categories, for example finance may represent a problem for a new firm growing rapidly but not for a
stable firm or a declining firm; assistance in export marketing is of interest to only a small number of these firms*
The Commission therefore proposes to take the initiative in a number ,of fields in a way ensuring that its action covers the greatest possible number of the problems with which the SMEs have to oontend.
The measures would be adapted and differentiated to ensure that
individual firms can benefit from $peoifio measures aooording to their real and current needs*
Most SMEs operate within relatively narrow geographical limits , i.e.
within local or regional boundaries* A minority of these firms operates
at national , or even international level * " A great deal of work has \
already been done at local, regional and national level, either by
semi-publio agenoies or by private bodies to help the SMEs to overoome their particular problems* • ;
Community aotion, wherever possible, will therefore take the fora of complementary measures, designed to strengthen or coordinate measures taken at levels nearer the SMEs* .
Moreover, speoifio measures adopted by the Commission, as, for example, in the fields of finanoing and exports, will, be implemented, wherever possible, through existing national and/or Community bodies, whether private or semi-publio* '
The SHEa have often complained - and rightly BO - that the frequency of State intervention, the complexity of the regulations and the
resulting paper-work constitute a "burden too heavy for them to shoulder*
The existenoe of an additional level above the local , regional and national levels oould well increase in number and render even more
complex the . interventions and regulations.
The Commission will therefore do everything it can to keep its action down to a minimum and will endeavour to simplify as far as possible the presentation of texts and the resulting formalities.
■ ThedefinitionofanSHEvarieswidelyintheCommunity,bycountry, a
by industry, by polioy, and by speoifio programme, as was shown dearly in the Commissions MD9finitionsn document (Doo. 413/lIl/76), published in 1976.
The wide range of oriteria can of oourse raise problems , in the way of establishing a homogeneous polioy and aotion programmefor industrial, oommeroial, artisan and services SMEs at Community level.
Accordingly, although the Commission feels that providing a solution to the problem of the definition of the SMEs is not a priority matter, it is prepared, if necessary, to review the question in the light of the SMErf needs, and to set up a working party for this purpose.
The lack of homogeneous and detailed statistics on the SMEB at Community level obviously does not faoilitate the development of Community polioies and wootione to assist these firms. Consequently, the SME/Artisanat
Division has just prepared a dooument on the basis of available national statistios which will show - espeoially for industrial firms - the quantitative ports&cs of ■> SMESin the Member States, and recent changes* After oonsultation
of the Government departments, this dooument will be circulated.
The situation will improve in the near future, sinoe the Statistical Office of \
the European Communities (SOEC) has begun annual coordinated surveys in the member countries on industrial aotivity, firms employing less than twenty persons being inoluded at intervals not exceeding five years.
The Commission fully shares the Parliament's view that an eoonomio polioy giving top priority to full employment and stability is of the greatest importance for the maintenance and expansion of the SMEs.
These are in faot the main objeotives of the fourth medium-term eoonomio polioy programme, published in 1977t a document whioh explicitly acknowledges the need to promote the profitability of the SMEs in the interests of eoonomio and social equilibrium, of the vitality of the economy and of the maintenance of competition.
(a) The Commission, reoognising the importance of providing sooial seourity ooverage for the entire population, prepared a draft reoommendation on the subjeot in 1976 which was endorsed by Parliament and the Eoonomio and Sooial Committee (Boo* COM(76)295 final, 16 June 1976)*'
 (b) The Commission is well aware that sinoe 1960 labour costs have inoreased proportionately faster than the oosts of using oapital , one reason being the gradual inorease in indireot wage costs.
The Commission has just raised this problem in its contribution to the t978 Tripartite Conference (Doo. 11/795/77 - "Investment and Employment").
The training of SME managements is one of the problems oommon to all the countries and all the industries. In the main, it is ax.area . for the representative associations and the national authorities.
Nevertheless, the Commission proposes!
(i) to organize a systematic comparison of the measures recently adopted in the Member States , with a view to determining which are the moBt effective and oould be also used in the other Member States;
(ii) to provide, through the Sooial Fund, finanoial assistance for managerial training oourses for the SMEs. A pilot projeot has just been ohosenj
(iii) to examine ways and means of encouraging, again through the Sooial Fund, managerial consultancy servioes for the SMEs as a method of training SME managers.
Aooess to the information they need is a special problem for the SMEs. Accordingly, further to an examination of the matter by its ad hoc working party on information for industry, the Commission organized at the erai of
1977 a workshop during which speoial emphasis was laid on methods and means ofohanneling informationtotheSMEs.
 It is hoped that these initiatives will in the ."near future yieldvaluabl. ' \ lessons .
The establishment of the European EURONET network, soon to beoome operational, will place scientifio, teohnioal and Booio-«oonomio data at the disposal of firms, inoluding the SMEs.
The Commission is well aware of the finanoial problems tl*e SMEfehave to oontend with, and it is doing everything it oan to help them to overoome these problems#
Generally speaking, the five main Community sources of finanoe are available to the SMEs as well as to big companies. To make these funds more effective and to adapt them also to the SMEs' needs, several improvements have been recently made or proposed. For example:
(a) the total amount of "global** loans (i.e. consolidated EIB loans to be on-lent to small businesses by national agenoies) rose from 61.2 m u.a. in 1976 to 9^*3 ® u.a. in 1977# an increase of nearly 50$.
^ -iî" On the
Government will guarantee borrowers, against payment of a small commission against the effeots of exohange rate fluctuations. The Irish Government has announced in a recent budget that it will also normally bear the burden of exchange risks:
(b) guidelines for the administration of the Sooial Fund in 1977 give top level priority to applications from the SMEs or groups of SMEs for operations relating to adaptation to technioal progressj
(0) with regard to the Regional Fund, the new proposals laid before the Counoil in June 1977 take account of two points made by the SMEs,
basis of a oontraot signed with the United Kingdom Government, this
namely *
(i) the SMEs requested that there be opportunities for interest rebates, to be granted by the Fund on loans made to firms by the EIB and by the other Community funds. One of the qualifying oategories is in faot the SMEo}
(ii) theSMEs requested the introduction of more flexible criteria and conditions for the granting of assistance from the Fund for the artisan and tourism sectors and servioes in general (the possibility of submitting consolidated applications).
Ways and means of making these souroes even more easily accessible to the SMEs are now being studied.
With regard to financing in general, the working party on SME/Artisanat, whioh / is manned by national offioials, has begun its examination of the problem of
the SMEs' €KT«iity eapital.
For this purpose , the members have drafted reports on the situations In thoir owncountries'(Doo. 1204/III/75)»
The Commission has also reoeived the results of a study on venture oapital needs in Europe, a subject of special relevanoe to the SMEs.
On the basis of this work and of work carried out recently by other bodies (e.g. a recently published UNICE study on the financing of the SMEs), the
Commissionstaff,workingwiththerelevant^odies andthegovernmentexperts, will oarry out em in-depth study with a view : to working out what praotioal
steps oan be taken in this field.
(a) The Commission is well aware of the faot that the administrative obligations arising from taxation are relatively heavier for the SMEs than for >ig
companies and that they map in fact entail exoessive costs for the smaller firms .
Simplification of procedures and administrative formalities is therefore desirable. Something has already been done to aohieve this in the sixth
Other efforts will be made in the field of trade between the Member States
measures to simplify oontrols and formalities at intra-Community frontiers are now being studied. This work will continue.
(b) The Commission is also well aware of the faot that the continuity of
family firms oan be hampered by oertain tax requirements, including, of
oourse, heavy death duties. One suggestion meriting further study in
this connection is that heirs of small businesses should be given more time to pay. :<
The Commission has taken measures at three levels to enoourage cooperation: *-
(a) by permitting oertain exemptions from the competition rules. The
Commission adopted two major measures at the end of 1977 widening still further the opportunities available to the SMEs;
(i) the relative threshold for total turnover established in 1970 by the communication on minor agreements has been inoreased from 15 m u.a. to 50mu.a.;
(ii) the threshold for the share of the total market whioh may be held by firms signing certain categories of specialization agreements has been raised from 10 to 15$ of the market, and the total turnover permissible has been raised from 150 m u.a. to 300 m u.a.
In 1978| the Commission will press forward further work on measures in this field. It will give its backing to the SMEs with regard to questions of sub-oontraoting, of block exemption for oertain patent lioensing agreements and certain exolusive dealing agreements, and with regard to exemption from the prior authorization requirement under Artiole 66 of the ECSC Treaty with regard to mergers.
(b) by proposing an appropriate legal form of business association, i.e. the European Cooperation Grouping.
Following, the opinions from Parliament and the Economio and Social Committee , an amended proposal will be transmitted by the Commission to the Council;
(o) by setting up, at operational level, the Business Cooperation Centre.
On the basis of fexperienoe in starting up the BCC, the Commission deoidod \
in July 1977 to improve the orientation of its work by authorizing it toi
(i) oonoentrate on certain priority sectors;
(ii) take the initiative itself in matters of inter-firm cooperation;
(iii) to include firms from certain non-member countries in its work, on oertairi conditions.
Major inoentives to the SMEs to export their produots axe already being made in the Member States. None the less, there is evidenoe that the SMEs do not export as much as they oould.
The Commission staff is therefore now considering various ways and means of stimulating SME exports to oountries outside the Community* Possibilities inolude :
(ii) financial support for SMEs taking part in fairs and exhibitions;
(iii) the organization of visits of prospective customers from norv-member , oountries }
(iv) the extension of the export advisors system already used in certain Member States.
Work to simplify administrative formalities , which has already begun in the , taxation area, as noted at paragraph 8 above, should be extended to other fields.
The Commission will Regularly remind the Member Governments of the importanoe - psyohologioal as well as eoonomio - of the problem of "red tape", and will make
recommendations for simplifying the administrative prooedures as muoh as possible .
The Commission is about to prooeed to an examination of ways and means of applying in the Community - as has already been done in Canada - the maximum response burden criterion for the SMEs with regard to the administrative < formalities that cam reasonably be required of them.
To encourage the SMEs to submit tenders at Community level , the Commission will consider the possibility of circulating a monthly notioe listing the publio oontraots published in the Offioial Journal of the European Communities to all the organizations representing the various branches of economio activity both at Community level and at national levels. It is proposing to organize an information campaign for the organizations representing the SMEs to explain Community machinery 4nd procedures to be followed and to encourage the SMEs to submit tenders .
It will also consider with the publio authorities how publio oontraots oould be made more easily accessible to the SMBa,
With a view to dealing with what . seem to "ba the main problems arising in this field , namely the problem of bringing sub-contraotors and principals into contaot, the relations between the two parties (ethics), and terminology,
 The Commission has:
(i) publishedalistofbodies dealingonapermanentorsemi-permanent basis with sub-contracting (Doc. 60l/lIl/76);
(ii) instructedtheBusinessCooperationCentretocarryoutcertain coordinationtasksbetweentheseagencies* Thishasledtothe preparation, of a draft terminology of sub-contracting work, facilities and products which is intended for use as a basis for a census of sub-contracting firms carried out by national or regional
sub-contracting bodies. The publication of harmonized catalogues will improve market transparency with regard to the supply of sub-contracting work.
However, it must be acknowledged that in matters of establishing contaot between sub-contractors and principals, the main responsibility lies with thetwoparties* Someassistancecanbeacoordedbythetradeorganizations
(e.g. by the bourses and more particularly by fairs and exhibitions). Because of the fluidity of commercial relations and the need to act quickly, a Community bourse would have no valid role to play.
Its 1972 proposal for a regulation oonoerning the introduction of Community development contracts having been dropped, the Commission proposed a Council decision concerning the promotion of R&D projeota J of industrial interest as part of its communication to the Counoil of 30 June 1977 on "Common policy for science and technologyw
(Doc. C0M(77)283 final). One aim of this proposal was to promote the oooperation of the SM% in research and development.
This proposal was strongly endorsed both by the Eoonomio and Social CommitteeandbyParliament. Althoughawareoftheimportanceofsupport
for industrial innovation, especially among the SMEs,' most of the Member States were still not yet in a position to approve the proposal initspresentform. Inthisconnection,theCommissionhasbeenasked tostudythematterfurtherduring1978. Itisnowworkingoutanew' position in the light of experience obtained and information received , in the course of its contacts with those working in the relevant fields.
The Counoil Decision of 14 February 1977 (OJ No L 61 of 5 Maroh 1977) concerning a technological research programme for footwear industry is one of the measures bearing witness to the Commission's sustained interest in research problems as they concern the SMEs.
The SMIbhave an important role in many industrial sedtors.
When operations to assist fepeoifio sectors are being undertaken, the Commission will therefore ensure that measures that can help the ' SMEfcto adapt to necessary change are in fact taken.
All available facilities will be deployed for this objeotive. /
In order to strengthen the participation of those working for and with
the SMEs inthe Community's deoision-making process, the Commission's servioea will invite in the course of time the various SME organizations to attend discussions on the problems whioh arise, the aim being to reach by joint action solutions to these problems in a more concerted way than in the
The Commission feels that this prooedure is better adapted to the real needs of the SMBsand of the artisanat sector than would be the establishment of a consultative oommittee.
Parliament's report on the problems faoing small • and medium-HBised enterprises in the Community (Boo. 518/77) is outstanding quality, both in respeot of its oontent and of the method adopted*
Accordingly, the Commission fully endorses the main lines of the resulting Resolution* The Commission's only reservation oonoerns the way in which conoerted discussion with the representatives of *
small and medium-sized enterprises should be organized*
This memorandum summarizes the Commission's main observations on the
Resolution* It begins by outlining the objectives and the prinoiples vhioh the Commission intends to follow in this field and then comments
on the main points raised in the Resolution*
There are small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in all sectors of industry , oommeroe and servioes * It is estimated that outside
agriculture and Government servioe about two-thirds of the working population work in these firms* The SMEs are therefore "typical" firms and in no way exceptions to "the general rule*
It is the SMEs – those already operating or those being set up – which give that flexibility which is essential to an eoonoaio system if it
is to be able to meet as well as possible the needs of our society, which are varied, oomplex and constantly changing*
Speoifio measures to help the SMEa will never get to the root of the problems the SMEs have to contend with if the general framework does not enoourage the establishment and expansion of these firms*
 The Commission*s first objeotiva is therefore to ensure that the eoonomio, legal, tax and sooial framework enables existing firms to develop and adapt constantly to changes and allows of the establishment and growth of new firms, ,
Because of their limited siee a large number of SMEs have
speoial problems preventing thea from playing effectively their proper role in the economio system*
The Commissions second fundamental objective will therefore be to help the SMEs to overcome these problems by the most appropriate means.
In the pursuit of these two fundamental objectives, the Contmission's measures will be guided by the following basio principlesi
(i) Int_egration of_the_SMEs and the ^arti^sanat^ injal.l-the_j)oli>oipe£
The SMEs and the artiBan or oraft sector are influenced by a very wide rangeofpolioiesandspecificprogrammes. EachCommunitypolicyand programme liable to affeot the SMEs or the artisan sector must therefore be established and examined with due regard to the SMEs* special features and needs so as to ensure that they are not harmed, whether directly or indirectly, or merely because the implications of planned measures have not been properly thought out*
(ii) Adoptaiors_of a multifaoet ajrproach
The SMEs are very diverse in nature and have special problems owing to their limited eiee*
 Some of these problems are common to all the SMEis, for example the "burden of administrative formalities and procedures, and sooial security costs*
Other problems arise for only certain categories, for example finance may represent a problem for a new firm growing rapidly but not for a stable firm or a declining firm; assistance in export marketing is of interest to only a small number of these firms*
The Commission therefore proposes to take the initiative in a number of fields in a way ensuring that its aotion oovers the greatest possible number of the problems with which the SMEs have to oontend*
The measures would be adapted and differentiated to ensure that individual firms can benefit from speoifio measures aooording to their real and current needs*
(iii) The complementarity of__nati,Q meas^ea_ax^_C£mmu^j^_meaaure!a
Most SMEs operate within relatively narrow geographical limits, i.e. withinlocalorregionalboundaries* Aminorityofthesefirmsoperates at national, or even international level* ' A great deal of work has already been done at local, regional and national level, either by semi-publio agenoies or by private bodies to help the SMEs to overoome their particular problems*
Community aotion, wherever possible, will therefore take the form of complementarymeasures,designed, tostrengthenorcoordinatemeasures taken at levels nearer the SMEs*
Moreover, Bpeoifio measures adopted by the Commission, as, for example, in the fields of finanoing and exports, will, be implemented, wherever possible, through existing national and/or Community bodies, whether private or semi-publio*
(iv) The Comni^s^ioajMlll, sndeavoar to_koe]> it£ actionjtc, the strict neoøesary mimmum
The SMEs have often complained. – and rightly BO – that the frequency of State intervention, the complexity of the regulations and the
resulting paper-work constitute a "burden too heavy for them to shoulder-
The axistenoe of an additional level above the local, regional and national levels could well increase in number and render even more
complex the . interventions and regulations.
The Commission will therefore do everything it can to keep its action down to a minimum and will endeavour to simplify as far as possible the presentation of texts and the resulting formalities.
The definition of an SMS varies widely in the Community, by oourrtry, i
by industry, by policy, and by specific programme, as was shown dearly in the Commission's "Dsfinitions" doouaent (Doo. 413/lIl/76) , published in 1976.
The wide range of oriteria can of oourse raise problems , in the way of establishing & homogeneous policy and action programme for industrial , commercial , artisan and services SMEs at Community level .
Accordingly, although the Commission feels that providing a solution to the problem of the definition of the SMEs is not a priority matter, it is prepared, if necessary, to review the question in the light of the SME^ needs, and to set up a working party for this purposes
The lack of homogeneous and de-tailed statistios on the SMEs at Community level obviously does not faoilitate the development of Community polioiea and motions - to assist these firms . Consequently , the SME/Artisanat
Division has juat prepared a dooument on the basis of available national statistics which will show – especially for industrial firms – the quantitative portaaoe of - SMEsin the Member States, and recent changes. After consultation
of the Government departments, this document will be circulated*
The situation will improve in the near future, sinoe the Statistical Office of the European Communities (SOEC) has begun annual coordinated surveys in the member countries on industrial aotivity, firms employing less than twenty persons being inoluded at intervals not exoeeding five years.
The Commission fully shares the Parliament's view that an eoonomio polioy giving top priority to full employment and stability is of the greatest importance for the maintenance and expansion of the SMEs.
These are in fact the main objectives of the fourth medium-term eoonomio polioy programme , published in 1977 i & document which explicitly acknowledges the need to promote the profitability of the SMEs in the interests of eoonomio and sooial equilibrium, of the vitality of the economy and of the maintenance of competition.
(a) The Commission, reoogniiing the importanos of providing sooial seourity ooverage for the entire population, prepared a draft reoommendation on the subjeot in 1976 whioh was endorsed by Parliament and the Eoonomio ani Sooial Committee (Doo* COM(76)295 final, 16 June 1976)
 (b) Th» Commission is veil aware "that sinoe i960 labour oosts have inoreased proportionately faster than the oosts of using oapital , one reason being the gradual inorease in indireot wage costs.
The Commission has just raised this problem in its contribution to the 1978 Tripartite Conference (Doo. II/795/77 – "Investment and Employment").
The training of SME managements is one of the problems oommon to all the countries and all the industries. In the main, it is m .area . for the representative associations and the national authorities.
Nevertheless, the Commission proposesi
(i) to organize a systematic comparison of the measures reoently adopted in the Member States , with a view to determining which are the most effective and oould be also used in the other Member States;
(ii) to provide, through the Sooial Fund, finanoial assistance for managerial training courses for the SMEs. A pilot projeot has just been ohooenj
(iii) to examine ways and means of encouraging, again through the Sooial Fund, managerial consultancy servioes for the SMEs as a method of training SME managers.
Aooesa to the information they need is a special problem for the SMEs. Accordingly, further to an examination of the matter by its ad hop working party on information for industry, the Commission organized at the end of 1977 a Workshop during which special emphasis was laid on methods and means ofohanneling informationtotheSMEs.
 It i» hoped that theae initiatives will in the near future yield valuable lessons .
The establishment of the European EURONET network, soon to beoome operational, will place scientific, technical and sgoic-econozaio data at the disposal of firms, including the SMEs.
The Commission is *?ell &war® of the financial problems the SMSsh&ve to contend with, and. it ie doing everything it oan to help them to overooroe theae problemso
Generally speaking, the five Bain Community sources of finanoe are available to the SMEa as well as to big companies, To make these funds more effective and to adapt them also to the SMEs* needs, several improvements have been reoently made or proposed. For examples
(a) -the total amount of "global** loans (i.e. consolidated EIB loans to be on-lent to Bmall businesses by national agenoies) rose from 61.2 m u.a.
in 1976 to 91«3 sb u.a. in 19779 an increase of nearly 50$.
On the
basis of a contract eigned with th® United Kingdom Government, this Government will guarantee borrowers, against payment of a small commissior
against the effeotB of exchange rate fluctuations. The Irish Government has announced in a recent budget that it will also normally bear the
burden of exchange risks5
(b) guidelines for the admisaistration of ths Social Fund in 1977 give top level priority to applications from the SMEs or groups of SMEs for operations relating to adaptation to technical progress;
,* <o) with regard to tha RQ^lcnB-i proposals laid "bftfo*0® "kh®
Counoil in Jxu& 1977 iak« account o£ 'wo points msda by th® SKE»# namelys
 companies and the* they may – -*-0* firms .
(i) th» BT-Ee r«qu«at«4 that tiiftr* be opporturdties aor -o be granted by the Fund oii loans loade to fir^a by t>-a EIB and by the other Community fur.de. One of the qualifying osi-goriea is in faot the r.Kfc*t
( ii ) the SMEe requested the Introduction of
conditions for the grantir>£ of assistance frora the F-.r-cl for the artisan
and tourism sectors and services in general (the possibility c<f ^ rait^ing consolidated applications)„
Ways and EeanB of making thes-3 ucvraw even Kor© easily scoesailla tn the "MEs are now bsing studiado
With regard to financing in general , ih* work!Jig party ©a SHE/Artisan**, vr.ich is manned by national officials, fe&s togon its wanduation of the prsbl^- of the SMEa 5 ®?<raity ®apitalo
For this purpoae, the members hay® drafted reports on the siU&»i9ii8 *-• own countries' (Doc. 12Q4/lIl/75)»
The Commission has also reoeived tfe« results of R ztx&j onj^^turs^ca^^l. needs in Europe, * subject of'sp«ol&l ralevanoe to the SMS®*
On the basis of this work and of Fork carried cat recently bj, o^hes Mc a (Q„ga a recently published UIECi? study sn th- financing o* ' • ?MB#}S ^hz Commission staff , working vith the rolovant »o£,i®s «>.d th-
vill caz*ry out s^i st/wly- teitu. dw/.X.... g --A*j J '-iv*' P*
 Other efforts will be made in the field of trade between the Member States measures to simplify controls and formalities at intra-Comnmnity frontiers are now being studied* This work will continues
(b) The Commission is also well aware of the faot that the continuity of family firms can be hampered by oertain tax requirements, inoluding, of oourse, heavy death duties. One suggestion meriting further study in this connection is that heira of small businesses should be given more time to pay*
The Commission has taken measures at three levels to enoourage oooperationt
(a) by permitting certain exemptions from the competition rules* The Commission adopted two major measures at the end of 1977 widening still further the opportunities available to the SMEs;
(i) the relative threshold for total turnover established in 1970 by the communication on minor agreements has been inoreased from 15 n u.a* to
(ii) the threshold for the share of the total market whioh may be held by firms signing certain categories of specialization agreements has been raised from 10 to 15$ of the marketf and the total turnover permissible has been raised from 150 as u«a> to 300 m u.a*
In 1978, the Commission will press forward further work on measures in this field. It will give its backing to the SMEs with regard to questions of Bub–oontraoting, of block exemption for certain patent licensing agreements and certain exolusive dealing agreements , and with regard to exemption from the prior authorization requirement ujjder Artiole 66 of the ECSC Treaty with regard to mergers«
(b) by proposing an appropriate legal form of business association, i .«. -the European Cooperation Groupings
Following the opinions from Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee, aa amended proposal will to transmitted by the Commiseion to the Council;
(o) by setting up, at operational level , the
On the basis of experience in starting up the BGC? the Commission decided in July 1977 to improve the orientation of its work by authorizing it tos
(ii) take the initiative itself in matters of inter-firm cooperation?
(iii) to include firms from certain non-member countries in its work, on certain conditions®
Major Incentive® to the SMSe to expert their product® *re already beins made in the Member States. 1km® the less, there ie evidence that the SJffis do
not export as roach as they could.
The Commission staff is therefor® now considering various ways and masms of stimulating SME exports to oountries outeide the Commurity, PoBsiDilities inolude :
(ii) financial support for SMEs taking part in fair® and exhibitions?
(iii ) the organization of visits ®f prospective oustoaera. from noxwaeabe* countries ;
(iv) the extension of the export advisers system already u.ssd in certain Member States .
"rfork to simplify administrative formalities, which has already "begun in the taxation areat as noted at paragraph 8 above, should be extended to other fieli'.:
The Commission will regularly remind the Member Governments of the importanoe »- psychological as well as eoonomlo – of the problem of "red tap®", and will make recommendations for simplifying the administrative procedures as much as possible *
,* The Commission Is about to proceed to an examination of ways and means of
applying in the Community – as has already been done in Canada – the maximum response burden criterion for the SMEB with regard to the admini,strative formal!tia3 that can reasonably be required of them.
To encourage the SMEB to submit tenders at Community level, the Commission will oonsider the possibility of circulating a monthly notioe listing the publio contracts published in the Official Journal of the European Communities to all the organizations representing the various branches of economic aotivity both at Community level and at national levels. It iB proposing to organize an information campaign for the organizations representing the SMEs to explain Community machinery tod procedurea to be followed and to encourage the SMEs to submit tenders .
It will also consider with the public authorities how publio contracts oould be made more easily aooesBible to the SMEb.
With a view to dealing with wha,t.»®em to.b« the main problems arising in this field, namely the problem of bringing sub–contractors and principals into oontaot, the relations between the two rx-rfc5.®s (ethics), and terminology,
(ii) instructedtheBusinessCooperationCentretocarryoutcertain coordinationtasksbetweentheseagencies. Thisnasledtothe
preparationofadraftterminologyofsubcontractingwork, facilities and products which is landed for use as a basis for a census of sub-contracting fir-ns carried out by national or regional
subcontracting bodis^. The publication of harmonized catalogues will improve market transparency with regard to tne supply of sub-contracting work.
KoWever, itmustbeacknowledgedthatinmattersofestablishingcontact between subcontractors and principal*, the min responsibility lies with th«twoparties. SomeassistancecanbeaccordedVthetrad,organisation*
(8egt fey the bovxses and more particularly by fairs and exhibitions) Beeauee of the fluidity of commercial relations and the need to act
'quickly» a Comity bourse vculd to so valid role to play.
Its 1972 proposal for a regulation concerning the introduction ef CoBununifcy development contracte having bee* dropped, the Cowiswon
proposed a Council decision concerning the promotion oi 'fatv projects If industrial interest as part of Its communication tc th« Council cf
30 June 1977 on. "Common policy for scisncr- and technol^g,-* (Boo.COM(77)283final). Onealaofth.'."proposalwastopromote the cooperation of the SMB in r®search sr.-3. developraent.
 Thi» prci^sal r»a strongly ®" \r>z-»eo. both by ^ oaomio mad Social Commit iee t n*. by Parliament . AJ 'fchov,eh H'-JCJ « of the importance of support for industrial innovation , especially tur.ong the SMEa , mot»t of the
Member States were still not. yet in a position to approve the proposal
in its preseri form. In this connection, ths Ccjimission has bean asked to study the DIPiter further during 1978* It is ^OW working out a new position in the light of experience obtained and information received
in the course of its contacts with those working in the relevant fields.
The Council Decision of 14 February 1977 (OJ No L 61 of 5 Maroh 1<>r7) concerning a technological research programme for footwear industry is
one of the o^asurcs bearing witness to the Compassion's sustained interest in researoh problems as they concern the SJ«iEs.
The SMBshave an important role in many Industrie ! sebtors ,.
When operations to assist kpeolfio a«?ortorc are being undertaken, the Commission will therefore ensure, that measures that can help the SMDsto adapt to necessary change are in fact taken.
All available facilities will be deployed for this objective.
In order to strengthen the participation o" those working for and with
the SMEs JJQthe Community's deoisiorwnak: > p process, the Commission's servic will invite is the course of time the ious Sffl organizations to attend discussions on the problems which arie«*f the aim being to reach by joint action solution to these probities in ». JBUVO concerted way than in the
Tha Commission feals that thr'a prooe is better adapted to tha real needs of '-be o. ^ - nd ox' the artist" *% sector than would be the establish* of " committee*
