In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
. Pas Parlament hat beantragt, dass der Ausdruck "objective of this fc#"Directive" durch "the purpose of this Directive", und zwar nur im
 Amendment to the Proposal for a Council Directive relating to the approximation of the laws, regula­ tions and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning Misleading & Unfair Advertising
Communication of Mr BURKE and of Mr DAVIGNON
The purpose of this proposal is to incorporate in the text of the draft Council Directive concerning Misleading & Unfair Advertising (Official Journal No C.70 of 21.3-1978, p.4)»under Article 149(2) of the EEC Treaty, a number of amendments which arise from the Resolution 'of Parliament "and the Opinion of the Economic & Social Committee .
The Council Working Group responsible for the Directive completed afirstreadingon21May1979* Theproposedamendmentshave,there­
fore, to some extent already been shaped by views expressed in the Council .
Proposal to the Commission
It is proposed that the Commission approve and transmit to the Council the annexed amendments to the proposed draft Directive concerning
Misleading & Unfair Advertising, together with the Explanatory Memo­ randum, also annexed.
 Amendment "to the Proposal for a Council Directive relating to the approximation of the laws, regula­ tions and administrative provisions of the Member States concerning Misleading & Unfair Advertising
The text submitted for approval by the Commission and transmitted to
the Council contains amendments to the proposed Directive concerning Misleading & Unfair Advertising (OJ No C.70 dated 21.3.1978, p*4)»
The amendments follow in large part the requests made by Parliament
and the Economic & Social Committee . Many cover points of detail . However, the amendment to Article 5 of the Directive introduces a substantial change because it admits an alternative to litigation as
a means of controlling misleading and unfair advertising in the form
of an administrative authority. This is the existing and preferred
form of control in some Member States and its omission from the original text of the Directive created a good deal of controversy. Its inclusion
under the proposed amendment to Article 5 would not rule out recourse
to a court of law if the administrative authority failed to act properly, effectively or at all.
 Amendment to the proposal for a Council Directive relating to the approximation of laws, regulations and administrative pro­
visions of the Member States concerning Misleading & Unfair Advertising (submitted by the Commission- to the Council pursuant to Article 149(2) of the EEC Treaty)
The amendments in the text which follows reflect certain requests resulting from the Opinion of the^Economic & Social Committee1 and the Resolution of the European Parliament2.
Parliament has requested that the expression "objective of this Directive" should be replaced by "the purpose of this Directive" in
theEnglishtextonlyoftheDirective. Itisconsideredunnecessary for the Commission to introduce the amendment under the Article 149(2)
procedure. Althoughthis/i^more^elegant,itdoesnotchangethe meaningoftheoriginaltext. Inthiscase,aswithothersuggested drafting improvements of the same nature, it. could be implemented in the Council when revised texts are prepared. ,
In order to clarify the point that advertising may be oral or in writing, or represented pictorially, it is proposed to amplify the text to indicate that for the purposes of the Directive advertising means the making of a representation in any form.
1Dated 5 April 1979, OJ No #
2Dated 8 May 1979, OJ No
 Parliament has also requested an amendment to indicate that advertising is direoted at the general publio or a part thereof. However, this
is inconsistent with Article 1, which also refers to other interests, and would thus lead to difficulties of interpretation. It is, there­ fore, proposed not to incorporate this amendment.
In the view of the Economic & Social Committee, this definition should not "be subject to a limitation excluding persons who would not fore- seably be reached by the advertising in question. However, it would seem better to retain the definition in its present form. In the
case of trade or specialised advertising, advertisers are reasonably entitled to assume a certain degree of knowledge on the part of the persons addressed and should not have to frame their advertisements on the assumption that they might be seen by a member of the general public .
(a) Parliament requests the deletion of "improper" from the original text, so that any reference to nationality etc, which casts dis­ credit on another person, falls within the definition of unfair advertising. This amendment clarifies the text and it is propo­ sed that it should be adopted.
( c ) Both the Economic & Social , Committee and Parliament have made the point that appeals to sentiments of fear may be justifiable to indicate to the public the need to take certain protective mea­ sures , for example , to acquire accident or life insurance . Only where such sentiments are abused is advertising unfair. It is proposed that the text be amended in this sense.
(d) Parliament has requested that this part of the definition, which was omitted in error from the original text in the French version, should •specifically relate to discrimination on the grounds of sex, and should also incorporate forms of discrimination included in paragraph (c) of the original text. It is proposed to accept this precise re-formulation, which also complies more closely with existing laws in some Member States and in this respect responds to the view expressed by the Economic & Social Committee.
 (e) In the original text, this paragraph referred to exploiting the
the term "exploits" is neutral and "both Parliament and the Eoonomic & Social Committee request that the text should indicate that advertising is unfair where it abuses the trust, credulity or lack of experience of consumers. It is proposed to adopt this amendment •
Parliament has also requested that the second part of paragraph (e)should"bedeletedaltogether. Theeffectoftheparagraphis to introduce a general definition of unfair advertising, which on oneviewistoobroadandvagtie. Ontheotherhand,otherstake
the view that the definition of unfair advertising should be es-pressed in general terms so as to permit the law some scope for development. Since this is a point of principle for some Member
States, it is proposed that it should be left for discussion in the Council.
The Economic & Social Committee has also called for the inclusion in
theDirectiveofadefinitionofservices. However,sincetheword •services* is used in the Directive in its natural and ordinary mean­ ing, it is not proposed to adopt this request.
The English text only should be amended to be consistent with the revised definition of "advertising" in Article 2.
Both Parliament and the Efconomic & Social Committee have requested that an advertisement shall be regarded as misleading when it is not
readily recognisable as an advertisement. It is proposed to adopt this -amendment .
The original text indicates that an advertisement is to be regarded as misleading when by omission it arouses expectations which the adverti­ sercannotsatisfy. Assuchexpectationsmaybeentirelysubjective, it is proposed to amend the original text • to refer to reasonable expec­ tations which the advertised goods or services cannot satisfy.
This Article concerns comparative advertising, which the Economic & Social Committee requests should be authorised for a trial period. Itisnotproposedtoadoptthisrequest. Comparativeadvertising isalreadylegalinanumberofMemberStates. Thequestionof
authorisation, therefore, does not arise for those countries and a limited authorisation only for Member States which do not recognise comparative advertising as legal would be inappropriate in a Directive for the approximation of laws.
The original text of the Directive proposed that persons or associa­ tions concerned by misleading advertising should be able to seek recourse,inacourtof.law. However,somecountriesprefertoexer­ cisecontrol-throughanadministrativeauthority. Thisisalready
the case, for example in Denmark where the Consumer Ombudsman has
this task, and in the United Kingdom, where the Independent Broadcast­ ing Authority has a statutory duty to control broadcast advertising. Parliament has proposed that this system should continue to be possible under the Directive as an alternative to litigation at first instance,
providedthatcertainconditionsarefulfilled. Theyaredetailedin the prpposed Parliamentary amendments to Article 5» make it clear that if the administrative authority fails to fulfil or abuses its
function, the courts shall have the last word.
It is proposed to adopt the Parliamentary amendment with two reserva­
tions. Thefirstconcernstheproposalthatanadministrativeautho­ rity may be the chosen means of control only in those countries where italreadyexists. However,ifcontrolbyanadministrativeauthority isviable,itshouldbeopentoanyMemberStatetochooseit. Secondly,
it would be desirable to clarify the text by indicating that an admini­ strativeauthoritymustapplyreasonablestandards. Initspresentform,
the Parliamentary amendment refers to the improper exercise of powers and this could be understood as limited to procedural abuses only.
The original text was intended to exclude the need to prove that a mis­ leading advertisement had been published intentionally or negligently. However, in referring to the absence of fault it has been misunderstood and it is proposed to clarify the text accordingly.
Parliament has proposed that this Article should be renumbered 7,
and that the original Article 7 should be renumbered Article 6. Nothing in the Directive is intended to damage the self-regulatory system of control operated by the advertising industry in several MemberStates, amArtxcle7istothiseffect. Toclarifythepoint, Parliament has proposed that the original Article 7 should stand next
toArticle5intherevisedtext. Itisproposedtofollowthis request .
TheoriginalArticle6nowbecomesArticle'7» Beoauseoftheimpli­ cations,of the reversal of the onus of proof proposed in this Article, Parliament requests that its provisions be limited to civil and admi­ nistrativecases. Thisamendmentshouldbeaccepted. InsomeMember States it is a fundamental principle of criminal law that the prosecu­ tion must prove the guilt of the accused and that the accused should notbeobligedtoprovehisinnocence. However,eveninitsamended version, the Directive does not oblige Member States to refrain from
reversing the burden of proof in criminal cases.
The Economic & Social Committee recommends that the Directive shoul
allowMemberStates24monthstocomplywithitsprovisions. Itis,
therefore,proposedtoamendthe'textinthissense. Itisalsopro­
posed to accept the Parliamentary amendment which would require Member States to communicate to the Commission the texts of all
provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by the Directive.
'Amendment "to the Proposal for a Council Directive relating
to the approximation of the laws, regulations and adminis­ trative provisions of the Member States concerning misleading and unfair advertising"'
For the purpose of this Directive:
– "Advertising" means the making of any pronouncement in -the course
of a trade , business or profession for the purpose of promoting the supply of goods or services ;
- "Misleading advertising" means any advertising which is entirely or partially false or which, having regard to its total effect , inclu­ ding its presentation, misleads
or is likely to mislead persons addressed or reached thereby, unless it could not reasonably be . foreseen that these persons would be reached thereby:
Amended text
For the purpose of this Directive :
- "Advertising" means the making of a representation in any form in the course of a trade , business or profession
for the purpose of promoting the supply of goods or services:
casts discredit on another person by improper reference to his nationality, origin, private life or good name; or
injures or is likely to injure the commercial reputation of another person by false state­ ments" or defamatory comments concerning his firm , goods or services ; or
appeals $o sentiments of fear, or promotes social or religious discrimination; or
Amended text
- "Unfair advertising" means any advertising which:
- "Unfair advertising" means any advertising which:
(a) casts discredit on another person by (1 word deleted) reference to his nationality, origin, private life or good name; or
(c) abuses or unjustifiably arouses
sentiments of fear; or
clearly infringes the principle (d) promotes discrimination on grounds
of the social , economic and cultural equality of the sexes; or
exploits the trust, credulity or lack of experience of a con­ sumer, or influences or is likely to influence a consumer or the public in general in any other improper manner;
"Goods " means property of any kind, whether movable or'immo­ vable , and amy rights or obli­ gations relating to property.
of sex , race or religion ; or
(e) abuses the trust, credulity or lack of experience of a consumer, or influences or is likely to influence a consumer or the public in general in any other improper manner;
In determining whether adverti- 1 . sing is misleading or unfair, pronouncements shall be taken
(a) Ti'- characteristics of the £ jods or services , such as
In determining whether advertising is misleading or unfair, represen¬ tations shall be taken into consi­ deration concerning in particular:
(English text only) unchanged
nature , performance , compo­ sition . method and date of
'/ manufacture of provision,
fitness for purpose , usa­ bility, quantity, quality, geographical or commercial
origin, properties and the results to be expected from
(b) the conditions of supply of the goods or services, such as value and price , condi­ tions of oontract and of
Advertising shall in particular be regarded as misleading when it is not readily recognisable as an advertisement or when it omits material information, and, by rea­ son of that omission, gives a false impression or arouses reasonable expectations which the advertised goods or services cannot satisfy#
the nature , attributes and . rights of the advertiser, such as his identity, sol­ vency, abilities , ownership of intellectual property rights or awards said (fistina­ ctions .
2. Advertising shall in particular 2. b© regarded as misleading when
and, by reason pf that omission, gives a false impression or arouses expectations which the advertiser cannot satisfy#
Amended text Article 3
Amended text Article 5
Member States shall adopt adequate and and effective laws against mislead- effective laws against misleading and
Member States shall adopt adequate
ing and unfair advertising.
Such laws shall provide persons
affected by misleading or unfair
advertising, as well as associations ing as well as associations with a with a legitimate interest in the legitimate interest in the matter, matter, with quick, effective and with quick, effective and inexpensive inexpensive facilities for iiitiating facilities for either
appropriate legal proceedings (a^ initiating appropriate legal pro- against misleading and unfair adver- ceedings against misleading or unfair
Member States shall in particular ensure that:
-the®urtsareenabled, evenwith­ out proof of fault or of actual prejudice.
(a) to order the prohibition or cessation of misleading or unfairadvertising; and
(b) to take such a decision under an accelerated procedure, with an interim or final effect;
- ihe courts are enabled :
(a) to require publication of a corrective statement; and
(b) bringing the matter before an administrative authority with adequate powers .
Member States shall in particular ensure that:
- the courts or the administrative auth­
ority. as appropriate, are enabled, even without proof of intention or negligence or of actual prejudice
•(a) to order the prohibition or ces­ sation of misleading or unfair
*advertising; and
(b) to take such a decision under an accelerated procedure, with an interim or final effect;
- the courts or the administrative auth­ ority. as appropriate, are enabled:
(a) to require publication of a cor­ rective statement; and
(b) to require publication of their (b) to require publication of their
decision either in full or in part and in such form as they may. judge adequate;
decision either in full or in part and in such form as they may judge adequate;
Such laws shall provide persons affec- ted by misleading or unfair advertis-
Amended text
ensure that the sanctions for inf– ringing these laws are a sufficient
deterrent| and, where appropriate, take into account the financial outlay on the advertising, the
extent of the damage and any profit resulting from the advertising#
Member States shall ensure that the consequences of infringing laws and decisions in the field of misleading and unfair advertising take into
account the extent of the harm*
Where the abovementioned powers are entrusted to an administrative auth­ ority, tie authority shall not he con­ trolled "by advertising interests,. shall "be obliged to give reasons for
its decisions, and shall be under a
duty to exercise its powers so as effectively to control misleading and
unfair advertising: and procedures shall exist whereby improper exercise
by the authority of its power or improper failure by the authority to exercise its powers or to apply rea¬ sonable standards can be reviewed by the courts at the request of the
Originally Article 7 - unchanged.
Article 7 (Originally Article 6)
Where the advertiser makes a factual
claim, the burden of proof that his claim is correct shall in civil and
administrative proceedings lie with him .
Where the advertiser makes a,fac- tual claim, the "burden of proof that his claim is correct shall lie
with him.
Member States shall bring into force the measures necessary to comply with this Directive within
eighteen recnths of its notifica­ tion and shall forthwith inform the Comndssion thereof.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which
- theyadoptinthefieldcoveredby this Directive'.
Amended text ' Article 9
Member States shall bring into force the measures necessary to comply with this Directive within twenty-four months of its notification and shall forthwith inform the Commission there­ of.
Member States shall communicate to. the Commission the text of all provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
Brussels/ 6th July 1979
(submitted by the Commission to the Council pursuant to Article 149(2) of the EEC Treaty)
 Amendment to the proposal for a Council Direotive relating to the approximation of law«, regulations and administrative pro­ visions of the Member States concerning Misleading & Unfair Advertising (submitted by the Commission to the Council pursuant to Article 149(2) of the EEC Treaty)
The amendments in the text which follows refleot certain requests resulting from the Opinion of the Economic & Sooial Committee^ aad the Resolution of the European Parliament^.
Comments on the Articles
Parliament has requested that the expression "objective of this Directive" should be replaced by "the purpose of this Directive" in the English text only of the Directive. It is considered unnecessary for the Commission to introduce the amendment under the Article 149(2) procedure. Although this/itMnore^elegant, it does not change the meaning of the original text* In this case, as with other suggested drafting improvements of the same nature, it oould be implemented in the Council when revised texts are prepared.
In order to olarify the point that advertising may .be oral or in writing, or represented pictorially, it is proposed to amplify the text to indicate that for the purposes of the Directive advertising means the making of a representation in any form.
2Dated 8 May 1979, OJ Ho
 Parliament has also requested an amendment to indicate that advertising isdireotedatthegeneralpublioorapartthereof. However,this
is inconsistent with Artiole 1, which also refers to other interests, and would thus lead to difficulties of interpretation. It is, there­ fore, proposed not to incorporate this amendment.
In the view of the Economic & Social Committee, this definition should
not he subject to a limitation excluding persons who would not fore­ ' seablybereachedbytheadvertisinginquestion. However,itwould
seembettertoretainthedefinitioninitspresentform. Inthe case of trade or specialised advertising, advertisers are reasonably entitled to assume a certain degree of knowledge on the part of the persons addressed andshould not have to frame their advertisements on the assumption that they might be seen by a member of the general public. |
(a) Parliament requests the deletion of "improper" from the original text, so that any reference to nationality etc, which casts dis­ credit on another person, falls within the definition of unfair advertising. Thisamendmentclarifiesthetextanditispropo­ sed that it should be adopted.
(o) Both the Economic & Social Committee and Parliament have made the ; point that appeals to sentiments of fear may be justifiable to indicate to the publio the need to take certain protective mea­ sures,forexample,toaoquireaccidentorlifeinsurance. Only where such sentiments are abused is advertising unfair. It is proposed that the text be amended in this sense.
(d) Parliament has requested that this part of the definition, which was omitted in error from the original text in the French version, should specifically relate to discrimination on the grounds of sex, and should also incorporate forms of discrimination included inparagraph(c)oftheoriginaltext. Itisproposedtoaccept this precise re–formulation, which also complies more closely with
existing laws in some Member States and in this respect responds to the view expressed by the Economio & Social Committee*
 (e) In the origins t^Mct* this paragraph referred to exploxtj.ng the trust, credulity or look of sxperienc-e of a consumer* However,
the term "exploits" is iswtral and both Parliament and the
Economic & Social CosHiitts6 request that the text should, indicate that advertising is unfair where it abuses the trust, credulity
or lack of experience of coi-jsuraers* It is proposed to adopt this .
Parliament has also requested that the second part of paragraph (e) should be deleted altogether« The effect of the paragraph is to introduce a general definition of unfair advertising, which on one view is too broad and vague. On the other hand, others iafce
the view that the definition of unfair advertising should "be expressed in general terras so as to permit the law some scope for development. Since this is a point of principle for some Member
States, it is proposed that it should be left for discussion in
the Counoil*
The Economic & Social Committee has also called for the inclusion in the Directive of a definition of services* However, Since the word
'services' is used in the Directive in its natural and ordinary mean­ ing. it is net proposed to adopt this request* '
The English text only should be amended to be consistent with the j revised definition of "advertising" in Article 2*
Both Parliament and the Economic St Social Committee have requested that an advertisement shall be regarded as misleading when it is not
readily recognisable as an advertisement* It is proposed to adopt this amendment*
The original text indicates that an advertisement is to be regarded as misleading when by omission it arouses expectations which the adverti­ ser cannot satisfy* As such expectations may be entirely subjective, it is proposed to amend the original text to refer to reasonable expec­ tations which the advertised goods or services cannot satisfy.
This Article concerns comparative advertising, which the Economic & Social Committee requests should be authorised for a trial period.
It is not proposed to adopt this request. Comparative advertising
is already legal in a number of Member States. The question of authorisation, therefore, does not arise for those countries and a limited authorisation only for Member States which do not recognise comparative advertising as legal would be inappropriate in a Directive for the approximation of laws.
The original text of tne Directive proposed tnat persons or associar- tions concerned by misleading advertising should be able to seek recourseinacourtoflaw. However,somecountriesprefertoexer­ cise control through an administrative authority. This is already the case, for example in Denmark where the Consumer Ombudsman has this task, and in the United Kingdom, where the Independent Broadcast­ ing Authority has a statutory duty to control broadcast advertising.
Parliament has proposed that this system should continue to be possible under the Directive as an alternative to litigation at first instance, providedthatcertainconditionsarefulfilled. Theyaredetailedin the proposed Parliamentary amendments to Article 5» and make it clear that if the administrative authority fails to fulfil or abuses its function, the courts shall have the last word.
It is proposed to adopt the Parliamentary amendment with two reserva­ tions. Thefirstconcernstheproposalthatanadministrativeautho­ rity may be the chosen means of control only in those countries where italreadyexists. However,ifcontrolbyanadministrativeauthority isviable,itshouldbeopentoanyMemberStatetochooseit. Secondly,
it would be desirable to clarify the text by indicating that an admini­ strativeauthoritymustapplyreasonablestandards. Initspresentform, the Parliamentary amendment refers to the improper exercise of powers and this could be understood as limited to procedural abuses only.
The original text was intended to exclude the need to prove that a mis­ leading advertisement had been published intentionally or negligently. However, in referring to the absence of fault it has been misunderstood and it is proposed to clarify the text accordingly.
Parliament has proposed that this Article should be renumbered 7, and that the original Article 7 should be renumbered Article 6. Nothing in the Directive is intended to damage the self-regulatory Bystem of control operated by the advertising industry in several
MemberStates,andArtiole7istothiseffect. Toclarifythepoint, Parliament has proposed that the original Article 7 should stand next toArticle5in"therevisedtext. Itisproposedtofollowthis request .
TheoriginalArticle6nowbecomesArtiold7* Becauseoftheimpli­ cations of the reversed of the onus of proof proposed in this Article, Parliament requests that its provisions be limited to civil and admi­ nistrative cases. This amendment should be accepted. In some Member States it is a fundamental principle of oriminal law that the prosecu­ tion must prove the guilt of the accused and that the accused should notbeobligedtoprovehisinnocence. However,eveninitsamended version, the Directive does not oblige Member States to refrain from reversing the burden of proof in criminal cases*
The Economic & Social Committee recommends that the Directive should allowMemberStates24monthstocomplywithitsprovisions. Itis,
therefore,proposedtoamendthetextinthissense. Itisalsopro­ posed to acoept the Parliamentary amendment which would require Member States to communicate to the Commission the texts of all
provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by
the Directive. , I
 - "Advertising" means the making of any pronouncement in tha course
of a trade, business or profession
for the purpose of promoting the supply of goods or servicesj j
- "Misleading advertising" means any : i
advertising which is entirely or partially false or which, having s regard to its toted effect , inclu-
ding its presentation, misleads
or is likely to mislead persons !
addressed or reached thereby, j unless it could not reasonably be
foreseen that these persons wouldJ be reached thereby; ,
– "Advertising" means the making of a representation in any form in
the course of a trade, business or profession
for the purpose of promoting the supply of goods or services;
Amendment to the Proposal for a Council Directive relating
to the approximation of the laws, regulations and adminis­ trative provisions of the Member States concerning misleading and unfair advertising"' 1
Amended text
For the purpose of this Directives , For the purpose of this Directives i
 – "Unfair advertising'5 susans any advertising whichs
(a) caste discredit on another person "by improper reference to hia nationality, origin, private life or good name ; or
- "Unfair advertising" means any advertising which*
(a) casts discredit on another person "by (1 word deleted) reference to hi'a nationality, origin, private life or good name? or .•
(b) injures or is likely to injur® (b) the commercial reputation of another person by false . state­ ments or defamatory comments concerning his firm , goods or services ; or
(c) appeals to sentiments of fear, (o) or promotes social or religious discrimination! or
(d) dearly infringes the principle (d) of the social , economic and
cultural equality of the sexes; or
(e) exploits the trust, credulity < (e)
or lack of experience of a con­
sumer, or influences or is likely to influenoe a consumer,
or the publio in general other improper manner;
"Goods'* means property of kind, whether movable or vable , and any rights or gations relating to property*
almsea or unjustifiably arouses . sentiments of fear; or
promotes discrimination on ground of seXo race or religion ; or
abuses the trust, credulity or lack of experience of a consumer, or influences or is likely to influenoe a consumer or the public in general in any other improper manner;
Advertising shall in particular be regarded as misleading when it is not readily recognisable as an advertisement or when it omits
material information, and, by rear- son of that omission, gives a false impression or arouses reasonable expectations which the advertised goods or services cannot satisfy*
Amended text Article 3
1. . In determining whether adverti– 1. In determining whether advertising »
sing is misleading or unfair, < pronouncements shall be taken into consideration concerning
(a) The characteristics of the j goods or services , such as nature , performance , compo- !
sition, method and date of j manufacture of provision,
fitness for purpose, usa- !
bility , quantity, quality, j geographical or commercial '
origin, properties and the j
results to be expeoted from , !
(b) the conditions of supply of j the goods or services , such >
as value and price, condi­ tions of contract and of [ guarantee ;
(c) the nature, attributes and rights of the advertiser, i
such as his identity, sol– j vency, abilities, ownership '
of intellectual property j
rights or awards and distin–^ otions . '
Advertising shall in particular ! 2. be regarded as misleading when i
it omits notorial information, - * - and , by reason of that omission, gives a false impression or s
•i arouses expectations which the 0
advertiser cannot satisfy. ^
is misleading or unfair, represen­ tations shall be taken into consi­
deration concerning in particular! (English text only) '
 Member States shall in particular ensure that :
- the <&urts are enabled, even with­ out proof of fault or of actual
I (a) to order the prohibition or
| cessation of misleading or I unfair advertising; and
i (b) to take such a decision under
Member States shall in particular ensure that :
-thecourtsortheadministrativeauth­ ority, as appropriate, are enabled,
even without proof of intention or negligence or of actual prejudice
j(a) to order the prohibition or ces­ sation of misleading or unfair
1 advertising; and
|(b) to take such a decision under an
, accelerated procedure , with an !
interim or final effect;
an accelerated procedure, with an interim or final effect :
Member States shall adopt adequate
and effective laws against mislead- effective laws against misleading and |
Member States shall adopt adequate and
ing and unfair advertising.
Such laws shall provide persons
affected by misleading or unfair ■
advertising, as well as associations ing as well as associations with a I with a legitimate interest in the legitimate interest in the matter, matter, with quick, effective and with quick, effective and inexpensive > inexpensive facilities for initiating facilities for either
appropriate legal proceedings 1 (a) initiating appropriate legal pro- against misleading and unfair adver- ceedings against misleading or unfair tismg.
Such laws shall provide persons affeo- ted by misleading or unfair advertis- .
(b) bringing the matter before an administrative authority with adequate powers .
-mecourtsareenabled: 1 theocurtsortheadministrativeauth­ ority, as appropriate, are enabled:
publication of a
statement: and statement ; and
(a) "to require publication of a cor­ n:
39 rective statement ; and
(a) to require
(b) to require
decision either in full or in part and in such form as they may judge adequate;
publication of their - (b) to require publication of their C-
r. deoision either in full or in * part and in such form as they ; may judge adequate;
 Original text Amended text
ensure that the sanctions for inf– Member States shall ensure that the ringing these laws are a sufficient consequences of infringing laws and
deterrent, and, where appropriate,; take into account the financial
outlay on the advertising, the extent of the damage and any profit resulting from the advertising.
decisions in the field of misleading ' 1 and, unfair advertising tske into
; account the extent of the harm,^
! Where the abovementioned powers are entrusted to an administrative auth­
ority, tie authority shall not be con- ; ■ "trolled by advertising interests ,
shall be obliged to give reasons for ,
its decisions, and shall be tinder a I duty to exercise its powers so as
effectively to control misleading and ' "un^a^-r advertising ; and procedure a
; shall exist whereby improper exercise
by the authority of its power or
■ improper failure by the authority to
; exercise its powers or to apply rear- ' sona^ e standards can be reviewed by
I the courts at the request of the !
Where the advertiser makes a fao–
tual claim, the burden of proof
that his olaim is correct shall lie ; claim is correct shall in civil and with him. ' administrative proceedings lie with
Originally Article 7 - unchanged. S
Article 7 (Originally Article 6)
Where the advertiser makes a factual ! olaim, the burden of proof that his
Mtmihttt- fcHkifcU fcfiiaii lots* toroe the measures necessary to
oomply with this Directive within eighteen months of its notifioar- tion and shall forfchwiih iiifoml
the Commission thereof*
Atsended text Article 9
MarnDfer £K&1,tiS ahaj-i bring into foroa the measures necessary to comply with this Directive within twenty-four months of its notification Bind shall
forthwith inform the Commission there­ of.
Member States shall communicate to
the Commission the text of the main ; Commission the text of all provisions
: this Directive*
provisions of national law which
^ of national law which they adopf; in they adopt in the field covered by 'the field covered by this Directive.
Member States shall communicate to the
