In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
An Intergovernmental Preparatory Group ( IPG) within the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has drawn up a draft Convention on International Multimodal Transport . Following its sixth session (held in Geneva from 21 February to 9 March 1979) the IPG reported on its work to the Trade and Development Board which decided
to convene in November 1979 a diplomatic conference to negotiate and conclude the Convention .
The draft prepared by the IPG contains a chapter on guidelines for customs transit procedures to be applied to multimodal transport operations.
Since customs transit is one aspect of the Customs Union it forms part of the common commercial policy . Transit is subject , furthermore , to Community rules which are contained in Council Regulation (EEC) No 222/77 and its implementing regulations . The Community is empowered, therefore , to undertake international commitments in this matter.
It is appropriate, therefore, that the Community, acting through the Commission, should take part in the negotiation of the Convention and become a contracting party thereto .
This is the purpose of the attached draft recommendation which the Commis­ sion is requested to approve.
In view of the effects of the Convention on the common commercial policy, the Council Decision should be based on Article 113 of the Treaty.
authorizing the Commission to participate on behalf of the European Economic Community in negotiations for the conclusion of a Convention on International Multimodal Transport
An Intergovernmental Preparatory Group within the United Nations Confe­ rence on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) was instructed to draw up a preli­ minary draft Convention on International Multimodal Transport. After
six meetings this group presented a draft document to the Trade and Development Board. The latter decided at its tenth special session in
March 1979 to hav^a United Nations Conference convened at the beginning
of November 1979, and if necessary reconvened/ to negotiate the Convention.
Purpose and scope of the Convention
The Convention concerns international multimodal transport , i.e. , the carriage of goods by not less than two different modes of transport under a multimodal transport agreement from a point in one country where the goods are accepted by the multimodal carrier to a point designated for delivery in a different country. The Convention thus contains provisions concerning the multimodal transport document, its content and value as evidence, the liability of multimodal transport operators, the liability of consignors and the rights and interests of the parties.
It also contains provisions providing for the use of a customs transit procedure for multimodal transport operations and lays down a number of guidelines in accordance with which the customs transit procedures must be conducted. These guidelines concern in particular :
- freedom of transit of goods carried multimodally; - the extent of customs inspection of such goods;
- customs clearance facilities at the destination; - exemption from duties and taxes;
- the customs transit document
The composition of the Convention is such that it comprises an operative
part governing the relationships under private law between the parties
to a Multimodal transport contract, and tn addition provisions of public
law, including a considerable number of provisions on customs matters. Community powers
Considered from the point of view of the guidelines on customs transit procedures contained in the Convention, the Community is undoubtedly empowered to negotiate and conclude this Convention . In fact , since
1 January 1970 Council Regulation (EEC) No 542/69 of 18 March 1969 (1),
later replaced by Council Regulation ( EEC) No 222 / 77 of 13 December 1976
(2), have regulated a Community transit procedure laying down customs rules governing the movement of goods in Community territory.
Accordingly, where undertakings assumed at international level are liable to interfere with Community transit rules or to lessen their scope or application , they may be negotiated only at Community level .
It should be noted, furthermore, that the Convention in question
is undeniably designed to facilitate the transport of goods using more
than one means .
It will contribute therefore to the growth of world trade and for that
reason conforms generally with the objectives of the Community's commer­ cial policy.
It would appear therefore that independently of the purely customs aspects, the Community is potentially empowered to negotiate its participation
in the Convention. It is essential therefore that a clause be inserted
in it permitting the Community to become a contracting party.
To that end the wording below based on that contained in a draft Conven­ tion (of 25 April 1979) of the Economic Commission for Europe on atmos­ pheric pollution could be adopted :
"This Convention shall also be open for signature or accession by regio­ nal economic integration organizations constituted by sovereign state members of the UNCTAD which have competence in respect of the negotiation, conclusion and application of international agreements in matters covered by the present Convention.
(1) 0J No L 77 of 29.3.1969,p.1 (2) 0J No L 38 of 9.2.1977,p.1
In matters within their competence, such regional economic integration organizations shall, on their behalf, exercise the rights and fulfil
the responsibilities which the present Convention attributes to their Member States. In such cases the Member States of the organizations shall not be entitled to exercise such rights individually."
It is also important, furthermore, that provision be made in the Conven­ tion that contracting parties which constitute a regional economic inte­ gration organization may agree that their territories be regarded as a single territory.
The Community should also be accorded,within the bodies in which the Convention will be negotiated, a higher status than that of a mere obser­ ver. Reference could be made in this connection to the circumstances
in which the Community was permitted to negotiate various agreements on basic products within the United Nations Organization, and to the right conferred on the Commission representative to act as spokesman for the Community and its Member States during the work of the Conference on the revision of the TIR Convention .
As regards those aspects of the draft Convention not pertaining specifical­ ly to customs matters, it should be amphasized that the Member States
and the Commission must cooperate closely when conducting the negotiations in order to maintain a uniform approach to each of the problems dealt with.
Bearing in mind the " common commercial policy " and more particularly the "customs" aspects of the Convention on International Multimodal Transport, Article 113 of the Treaty would appear to be the most appropriate provision to be used as a basis for the negotiation and conclusion of this Convention by the Community .
The Commission recommends, pursuant to Article 113 of the Treaty, that the Council authorize it ot take part in the negotiation of the Convention on International Multimodal Transport.
Representations will have to be made to the Secretariat General of UNCTAD in order to demonstrate beyond doubt that the Community has competence in respect of matters covered by the Convention as well as the exclusive power of negotiation conferred in this particular case on the Commission by the Treaty.
The purpose of such representations should be to ensure that the Community is invited, with a right to vote, to the United Nations Conference at which the Convention is to be negociated.
 Draft Recommendation for a Council Decision
authorizing the Commission to participate on behalf of the European Economic Community in negociations for the conclusion of a Convention on International Multimodal Transport
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to,the recommendation by the Commission, i
Whereas a diplomatic conference is to be convened at the beginning of November 1979 within the United Nations Conference on Trade and Develop­ ment to draw up a Convention on International Multimodal Transport;
Whereas the draft of that Convention contains a number of provisions concerning guidelines on customs transit questions,
Whereas customs transit is governed by rules adopted at Community level and consequently falls within the Community's own competence;
Whereas, moreover by facilitating transport using more than one means,
the objectives of the Convention correspond to those pursued by the common commercial policy,
The Commission is hereby authorized to participate on behalf of the Community, within the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in the negotiations for the conclusion of a Convention on International Multimodal Transport.
It shall conduct these negotiations with the aid of a special committee composed of representatives of the Member States and in accordance with the directives annexed hereto and with such directives as may be issued to it subsequently.
For the Council The President
The Commission shall endeavour to ensure that the draft Convention on International Multimodal Transport is consistent with the provisions adopted by the Community in respect of customs transit and, in particular with those contained in Council Regulation ( EEC)' No 222 / 77 of 13 December 1976 .
The draft Convention must contain provisions enabling the European Economic Community to become a contracting party thereto and to be reco­ gnized as constituting a single territory. The Commission shall take steps to ensure that within those bodies in which the Convention is negotiated it is accorded a status higher than that of observer.
TFÏÏF It I
authorizing the Commission to participate on behalf of the European Economic Community in negotiations for the conclusion of a Convention on International Multimodal Transport
An Intergovernmental Preparatory Group within the United Nations Confe­ rence on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) was instructed to draw up a preli­ minary draft Convention on International Multimodal Transport. After
six meetings this group presented a draft document to the Trade and Development Board. The latter decided at its tenth special session in March 1979 to ha\fc a United Nations Conference convened at the beginning
of November 1979, and if necessary reconvened, to negotiate the Convention Purpose and scope of the Convention
The Convention concerns international multimodal transport , i.e. , the carriage of goods by not less than two different modes of transport under a multimodal transport agreement from a point in one country where the goods are accepted by the multimodal carrier to a point designated for delivery in a different country. The Convention thus contains provisions concerning the multimodal transport document, its content and value as evidence, the liability of multimodal transport operators, the liability of consignors and the rights and interests of the parties.
It also contains provisions providing for the use of a customs transit procedure for multimodal transport operations and lays down a number of guidelines in accordance with which the customs transit procedures must be conducted. These guidelines concern in particular s
- freedom of transit of goods carried multimodally; - the extent of customs inspection of such goods;
- customs clearance facilities at the destination; - exemption from duties and taxes;
- the customs transit document )
 The composition of the Convention is such that it comprises an operative
part governing the relationships under private law between the parties •-
to a f'ultimodal transport contract, and in addition provisions of public
law, including a considerable number of provisions on customs matters. Community pow'ers '
Considered from the point of view of the guidelines on customs transit procedures contained in the Convention, the Community is undoubtedly empowered to negotiate and conclude this Convention . In fact , since
1 January 1970 Council Regulation ( EEC ) No 542 / 69 of 18 March 1969 ( 1 ),
later replaced by Council Regulation (EEC) No 222/77 of 13 December 1976 (2), have regulated a Community transit procedure laying down customs rul
governing the movement'of goods in4Community territory.
Accordingly, where undertakings assumed at international level are liable
to interfere with Community transit rules or to lessen their scope or application , they may be negotiated only at Community level . It is essential therefore that a-clause be inserted in it permitting the Community to become a contracting party. It should be noted, furthermore, that the Convention in question is undeniably designed to facilitate
the transport of goods using more than one means. It will contribute therefore to the growth of world trade. '
To that end the wording below based on that contained in a draft Conven­ tion (of 25 April 1979) of the Economic Commission for Europe on atmos­ pheric pollution could be adopted :
"This Convention shall also be open for signature or accession by regio­ nal economic integration organi zat ions constituted by sovereign sK'te renters of the UNCTAD which have competence in respect of the negotiation
conclusion and application of international agreements in matters covered ty the présent Convention .
(1) 0J No L 77 of 29.3.1969,p.1
(2) 0J No L 38 of 9.2.1977,p.1 ./.
 In matters within their competence, such regional economic integration organizations shall , on their behalf , exercise the rigf-ts an<3 fulfil
the responsibilities which the present Convention attributes to their Member States. In such cases the Member States of the organizations shall not be entitled to exercise such rights individually."
It is also important, furthermore, that provision be r,d<f in tre Conven­ tion that contracting parties which constitute a regional eccno-.ic inte­ gration organization may agree that their territories ce re -, trc.r j as a single territory.
The Cc^f-unity should also be accorded,within the tcdies in wf-ich the Convention will be negotiated, a higher status than that cf J rcrp c:.'.er- ver . Reference could be m.vle in this connection to the c ircu-'.t
in which t ?. •? Community was permitted to negotiate various a ; rp^rr,t5 v-
basic products within the United Nations Organi zat icn , jr.j to ri ; t
conferred on the Commission representative to act as spqk -.- f.m.jn for tr <- /.
Cc-wunity and its Member States during the work of the Conference cn ;he revision of the TIR Convention .
As regards the " transport " aspects of the draft Convention , the Commission will prepare a proposal for a Council Decision envisaging common action by the Member States in accordance with Article 116 of the Treaty. '
êearinq in frind the
"customs" aspects of the Convention on International Multi-c.;.il Tran^crt, Article 113 of the Treaty would appear to be the most vt. ; rc^r u;e provision to be used as a basis for the negotiation and conclusion of tMs Convention by the Community.-
The Commission recommends , pursuant to Article 113 of tfe T t - 11
the Council authorise it ot take part in the negotiation of tf.e C on International Multim.odal Transport.
Representations will have to be made to the Secretariat General of UNCTAD in order to demonstrate beyond doubt that the Community has competence in respect of matters covered by the Convention as well as the exclusive power of negotiation conferred in this particular case on the Commission by the Treaty.
The purpose of such representations should be to ensure that the Community is invited, with a right to vote, to the United Nations Conference at which the Convention is to be negociated.
 Draft Recommendation for a Council Decision
authorizing the Commission to participate on behalf of the European Economic Community in negociations for the conclusion of a Convention on International Multimodal Transport
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the recommendation by the Commission,
Whereas a diplomatic conference is to be convened at the beginning of November 1979 within the United Nations Conference on Trade and Develop­ ment to draw up a Convention on International Multimodal Transport;
Whereas the draft of that Convention contains among others a number of provision concerning guidelines on customs transit questions.
Whereas customs transit is governed by rules adopted at Community level and consequently falls within the Community 's own competence ,
As regards customs aspects the Commission is hereby authorized to participate on behalf of the Community, within the United Nations Conference on Trade and Deve­ lopment, in the negotiations for the conclusion of a Convention on International Multimodal Transport. .
 It shall conduct these negotiations with the aid of a special committee composed of representatives of the Member States and in accordance with the directives annexed hereto and with such directives as may be issued to it subsequently .
For the Council The President
The Commission shall endeavour to ensure that the draft Convention on
International Multimodal Transport is consistent with the provisions
adopted by the Community in respect of customs transit and, in particular
with those contained in Council Regulation ( EEC)' No 222 / 77 of 13 December 1976 .
The draft Convention must contain provisions enabling the European Economic Community to become a contracting party thereto and to be reco­ gnized as constituting a single territory. The Commission shall take steps to ensure that within those bodies in which the Convention is negotiated it is accorded a status higher than that of observer.
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
Brussels*19th; July 1979
An Intergovernmental Preparatory Group within the United Nations Confe­ rence on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) was instructed to draw up a preli­ minary draft Convention on International Multimodal Transport. After
six meetings this group presented a draft document to the Trade and Development Board. The latter decided at its tenth special session in . March 1979 to have a United Nations Conference convened at the beginning
of November 1979, and if necessary reconvened, to negotiate the Convention
Purpose and scope of the Convention
The Convention concerns international multimodal transport / i.e. , the
carriage of goods by not less than two different modes of transport under a multimodal transport agreement from a point in one country where the goods , are accepted by the multimodal carrier to a point designated for
delivery in a different country. The Convention thus contains provisions
concerning the multimodal transport document, its content and value as , evidence, the liability of multimodal transport operators, the liability of consignors and the rights and interests of the parties.
It also contains provisions providing for the use of a customs transit procedure for multimodal transport operations and lays down a number of : guidelines in accordance with which the customs transit procedures must be conducted. These guidelines concern in particular :
- freedom of transit of goods c.arri.ed multimodally;
- the extent of customs inspection of such goods; : " 1 - 'customs clearance facilities at the destination;
- exemption from duties and taxes;,: - guarantees; •
- the customs transit document.
 The composition of the Convention is such that it comprises art operative
part governing the relationships under private law between the parties
to a Multimodal transport contract, and in addition provisions of public
law, including a considerable number of provisions on customs Batters. Community powbrs , ' . • ;–
Considered from the point of view of the guidelines on customs transit procedures contained in the Convention, the Community is undoubtedly
empowered to negotiate and conclude this Convention .- 1 January 1970 Council Regulation ( EEC ) No 542 / 69 Of later replaced by Council Regulation ( EEC) No 222 / 77
18 March 1969 ( 1 ), of 13 December 1976
(2), have regulated a Community transit procedure laying down customs rul
governing the movement'of goods in^Community territory.
Accordingly, where undertakings assumed at international level are liable
to interfere with Community transit rules or to lessen their scope or i....
application, they may be negotiated only at Community level.' It is essential therefore' that aclause be inserted in it permitting the, ,
Community to become a contracting party. It should be noted, furthermore, that the Convention in question is undeniably 'designed to , facilitate
the transport of goodsfusing more than one means. It wilt contribute therefore to the. growth of world trade. v ; 1 ; > .
To that end the wording below based on that contained in a draft Conven­
tion (of 25 April 1979) of the Economic Commission for Europe on atmos­
pheric pollution could be adopted :
"This Convention shall also be open for signature or accession by regio­
nal economic integration organizations constituted by sovereign State .
members of the UNCTAD which have competence in respect of the negotiation
conclusion and application of international agreements in matters covered
by the present. Convention.. ■ ' ' ? ' ■ ;V \ : ••- .
(1) 0J No L 77 of 29.3.1969,p.1 -h r'/ (2) 0J NO'L 38 of 9.2.1977,p.1 . '
In matters within their competence, such regional economic 'integration organizations shall, on their behalf, exercise the rights, and fulfil
the responsibilities which the present Convention attributes to their Member States. In such cases the Member States of the organizations shall not be entitled to exercise such rights individually."
It is also important, furthermore, that provision be m.>d«< in the Conven* t ion that contracting parties which constitute a regional' economic inte-
gration organization may agree that their territories be regarded a* a . single territory* _
The Community should also be accorded,within the todies in which the ' Convention will be negotiated, a higher status than that of a - re obser­ ver . Reference could be marie irS this connection to the c Vrcu-'.t »nceu
in which tl.t Community was permitted to negotiate various agree-nt* cr basic products within the United Nations Organization, and to the rigM ,
Conferred on the Commission representative to act as spokesman- for th«» Community and its Member States during the work of the Conference on the revision of the TIR Convention *
As regards the "transport" aspects of the draft Convention, the Commission will prepare a proposal for a' Council Decision envisaging common action by the Membe
States in accordance with Article 116 of the Yreaty.
Bearing in mind the \
•'customs" aspects of the Convention' on International *ult
Article 113 of the. Treaty would appear to be the most •#:*-propr*at« provision
to be used as a basis for the negotiation and concluticn of thi * Convention . by the Community . ' v
The Commission recommends, pursuant to Article 113 of the. rtjty, t «.»
the Council authorize it ot take part. in th. negotiation of u. Convention on International Multimodal Transport.
 Representations will have to be made to the Secretariat General of UNCTAD in order to demonstrate beyond doubt that the Community has competence in respect of matters covered by the Convention as well as the exclusive power of negotiation conferred in this particular case on the Commission by the Treaty .
The purpose of such representations should be to ensure that the Community is invited,, with a right to vote, to the United Nations Conference at which the Convention is to be negociated.
for a Council Decision
authorizing the Commission to participate on behalf of the
• European Economic Community in negociat ions' for the conclusion k of a Convention on International Multimodal Transport
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, . andinparticularArticle113thereof, , ' ■
Having regard to the recommendation by the Commission/
whereas a diplomatic conference is to be convened at the beginning of November1979withintheUnitedNationsConferenceonTradeandDevelop-: ment to draw up a Convention on International Multimodal Transport;
Whereas the draft of that Convention contains among others a numbed of provisions concerning guidelines on customs transit questions, „ >
Whereas customs transit is governed by rules adopted at Community level ... and consequently falls within the Community's own competence.
As regards customs aspects the Commission is hereby authorized to participate on behalf of the Community, within the United Nations Conference on Trade and Deve­ lopment, in the negotiations f6r the conclusion of a Convention on International Multimodal Transport. v . - ' ' -
It shall conduct these negotiations with the aid of a special committee composed of represent at ives cf the Member States and in accordance with the directives annexed hereto and with such directives as ir.ay be issued to It subsequently .
For the Council The President
The Commission shall endeavour to ensure that the draft Convention on
International Mult imodcJ Transport i " consistent *»ith the provisions
adopted by the Community in respect of customs transit and/ in particular
with those 'contained in Council Rsg-jlation (SEO Nc 222/77 of 13 December 1976 .
The draft Convention must contain provisions enablina the European Economic Community to become a contracting party thereto and to be reco­ gnized as constituting a single tsrritory. The Commission sKall take steps to ensure that within those bodies in which the Convention is negotiated it is accorded # st*H:s higher than fch-at of observer.-
