In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(in ton)
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC )
allocating catch quotas between Member States for vessels fishing in Swedish waters
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
The consultations which have taken place between the European Economic Community and Sweden, according to the rules set out in the fisheries agreement signed between the two parties, have resulted in agreement between the two delegations about the fishing rights for the year 1979 for each party in the waters of the other.
The proposed regulation is intended to divide the negotiated Community quotas in Swedish waters between the interested Member States, and to ensure adequate control of Community fishing by introducing an obligation on Community vessels to report their catches in Swedish waters to the Commission on aVmonthly toasis.
allocating catch quotas between member States <. -v s for vessels fishing in Swedish waters
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament '
Whereas on 3 November 1976 the Council adopted a set of resolutions concerning certain external and internal aspects of the common fisheries policy;
Whereas the Community and Sweden have -signed a Framework Agreement on fisheries
Whereas the Community and Sweden have held, consultations concerning their *'
mutual fishing allocations for 1979?
Whereas during the consultations the delegations agreed to recommend to their authorities that they fix certain catch quotas for 1979 for vessels of the other party:
Whereas it is the responsibility of the Community to allocate the catch quotas in the Swedish fishery zone among its own fishermen;
Whereas in order to ensure an equitable allocation of available fishing possibilities between the fishermen of the Community these quotas Bhould be
' allocated between the member States of the Community;
Whereas information about actual catches should be made available in order ' to ensure that the allocations are respected,
Prom 1 January to 31 December 1979 vessels flying the flag of a member State shall be authorized to make only the catches set out in the Annex hereto in waters falling within the fisheries jurisdiction of
Member States shall send monthly _ to the Commission information
concerning the catches broken down by species, made by vessels flying their flag fishing in Swedish waters.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply until 3i December 1979*
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all member States .
Por the Council The President
Quantities referred to in Article 1 for the period
1 January to 31 December 1979 -#■
