In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
The attached draft Regulation, when adopted by the Council, will provide for the replacement of the present Community customs valuation system by the new system developed in the multilateral trade negotiations of 1973 / 1979 .
 REGULATION (EEC) OF THE COUNCIL on the valuation of goods for customs purposes
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particulair Artiole 113 thereof;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Whereas the Community is based upon a customs union;
Whereas, for the purpose of uniform application of the Common Customs Tariff, it is necessary that the customs value be determined in a uniform manner in
Whereas it is necessary to prevent any deflection of trade and activities and any distortion of competition which might arise from differences in national practices;
concluding of agreements arising from the multilateral trade negotiations of 1973/1979» the Council has in particular approved, in the name ofthe European Economic Community the "Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade";
Whereas the said agreement enters into force as far as the Community is
concerned on 1 January 198l » • «
Whereas the Community, in accepting the Agreement, placed itself under an obligation to ensure, not later than the date of entry into force of this Agreement for it, the conformity of its laws, regulations and administrative procedures with the provisions of the Agreement ;
Whereas the Community has decided to 'implement the Agreement as from 1 July 1980;
Whereas the uniform application of the provisions of this Regulation to imports of all goods must be ensured, and to this end a Community procedure must be introduced which will permit the adoption of implementing provisions within appropriate time limits; whereas it is necessary to set up a Committee to organise close and effective co-operation between the Member States and the Commission in this field;
In this Regulation –
value for the «
( ii ) "produced" includes grown ,
manufactured and
(iii) "identical goods" means goods produced in the same country which are the same in all respects , including physical characteristics , quality and reputation, but minor differences in appearance shall not preclude goods otherwise conforming to the definition from "being regarded as identical ;
(iv) "similar goods" means goods produced in the same country which, although not alike in all respects, have like characteristics and like component materials which enable them to perform the same functions and to "be commercially interchangeable ; and the quality of the goods, their reputation and the existence of a trademark are among the factors to be considered in determining whether goods are similar;
(v) "identical goods" and "similar goods", as the case may be, do not include goods which incorporate or reflect engineering,
development , artwork , design work , and plans and sketches for which no adjustment has been made under Article 8.l(b)(iv) because such elements were undertaken in the Community;
(vi) "goods of the same class or kind" means goods which fall within a group or range of goods produced by a particular industry or industry sector , and includes identioal or similar goods ;
(vii) "the material time for valuation for customs purposes" means –
(a) for goods declared for direct home use, the date of acceptance by the customs authorities of the declarant's statement of his intention that the goods should enter into home use :
purpose of
applying the
(b) for goods which, after another customs procedure has been
applied, enter into home use, the time fixed by acts of the Council or the Commission pertaining to that customs procedure or by Member States in accordance with such acts;
(viii) "the Agreement" means the Agreement on Implementation of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade con­ cluded in the framework of the multilateral trade negotiations
of 1973/1979. '
For the purposes of this Regulation, persons shall be deemed to be related only if –
(a) they are officers or directors of one another's businesses;
(b) they are legally recognised partners in business;
(c) they aire employer and employee;
(d) any person directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds
5 per cent or more of the outstanding voting stock or shares of both of them;
(e) one of them directly or indirectly controls the other;
(f) both of them are directly or indirectly controlled by a third person ;
(g) together they directly or indirectly control a third person; or
(h) they are members of the same family.
For the purposes of this Regulation the term "persons" includes legal persons , where appropriate .
The customs value of imported goods is to.be determined under the
of Article 3 whenever the conditions prescribed therein are
1. provisions fulfilled .
2. Where such value cannot be determined under the provisions of Article 3» it is to be determined by proceeding sequentially through Articles 4« 5» 6 and 7 to the first such Article undei which it can be
determined., subject to the proviso that the order of application of Articles 6 and 7 shall be reversed if the importer so requests; and it is only when such value cannot be determined under the provisions of a particular Article that the provisions of the next Article in a sequence established by virtue of this paragraph can be applied.
3. Where the customs value of imported goods cannot be determined under the provisions of Articles 3» 4» 5» 6 or 7| i"t shall then be determined using reasonable means consistent with the principles and general provisions of the Agreement and of Article VII of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and on the basis of data available in the Community .
4. No customs value shall be determined under the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Article on the basis of –
(a) the selling price in the Community of goods produced in the Community ;
(b) a system which provides for the acceptance for customs purposes of the higher of two alternative values;
(c) the price of goods on the domestic market of the country of
(d) the cost of production other than computed values which have been determined for identical or similar goods in accordance with the provisions of Article 7 »
(e) the price of the goods for export to a country not being a Member State ;
(g) arbitrary or fictitious values.
customs value of imported goods determined tuider the provisions
1. The
of this Article shall be the transaction value, that is the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to the Community adjusted in accordance with the provisions of Artiole 8, provided –
 (a) that there are no restrictions as to the disposition or use of
that the sale or price is not subject to some condition or consideration for which a value cannot be determined with respect to the goods being valued;
that no part of the proceeds of any subsequent resale, disposal or use of the goods by the buyer will accrue directly or indirectly to the seller, unless an appropriate adjustment can be made in accordance with the provisions of Article 8 ; and
that the buyer and seller are not related, or where the buyer and seller are related, that the transaction value is acceptable for customs purposes under the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Article * .
In determining whether the transaction value is acceptable for the purposes of paragraph 1, the fact that the buyer and the
seller are related within the meaning of Article 1 shall not in itself be grounds for regarding the transaction value as unacceptable. In such case the circumstances surrounding the
sale shall be examined and the transaction value shall be
accepted provided that the relationship did not influence the price . If , in the light of information provided by the importer or otherwise , the customs . authorities have grounds for considering that the relationship influenced the price, they shall communicate such grounds to the importer and lie shall be given a reasonable opportunity to respond. If the importer so requests, the communication of the grounds shall be in writing.
In a sale between related persons, the transaction value shall be accepted and the goods valued in accordance ^ith the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Artiole whenever the importer demonstrates
the (i)
goods "by the buyer other than restrictions which –
are imposed or required "by law or by the public authorities in the Community;
(iii) do not substantially affect the value of the goods;
limit . the goegraphical area in which the goods may be resold ; or
 that such value closely approximates to one of the following occurring at or about the same time –
( i ) the transaction value in sales , between buyers and. sellers who are not related in any particular case, of identical or similar goods for export to the Community;
(ii) the customs value of identical or similar goods as determined under the provisions of Article 6;
iii) the customs value of identical or similar goods as determined under the provisions of Article 75
(iv) the transaction value in sales, between buyers and sellers who are not related in any particular case, for export to the Community of goods which would be identical to the imported goods except for having a different country of production provided that the sellers in any two transao- tions being compared are not related.
In. applying the foregoing tests, due account shall be taken of demonstrated differences in commercial levels , quantity levels , the elements enumerated in Article 8 and costs incurred by the
seller in sales in which he and the buyer are not related that are not incurred by the seller in sales in which he and the buyer are related.
The tests set forth in paragraph 2(b) of this Artiole are to be used at the initiative of the importer and only for comparison purposes. Substitute values may not be established under the provisions of the said paragraph 2(b).
The price actually paid or payable is the total payment made
or to be made by the buyer to or for the benefit of the seller for the imported goods. The payment' need not necessarily take the form of a transfer of money. Payment may be made by way of letters of oredit or negotiable instruments and may be made directly or indirectly.
Activities , including marketing activities , undertaken by the buyer on his own account, other than those for which an adjustment is provided in Article 8, are not to be taken as an
 indirect payment to the seller, even though they might "be regarded as of benefit to the seller or have been undertaken with his agreement, and their cost shall not be added to the price actually paid or payable in determining the customs value of imported goods.
4. The customs value of imported goods shall not include the following charges or costs, provided that they are distinguished from the price actually paid or payable for the imported goods –
(a) charges for construction, erection, assembly, maintenance or technical assistance, undertaken after importation on imported goods such as industrial plant, machinery or equipment;
(b) the cost of transport after importation;
(c) customs duties and other taxes payable in the Community by reason of the importation or sale of the goods*
The customs value of imported goods determined under the provisions of this Article shall be the transaction value of
identical goods sold for export to the Community and exported at or about the same time as the goods being valued.
(b) In applying this Article, the transaction value of identical
goods in a sale at the same commercial level and in substantially
the same quantity as the goods being valued shall be used to y
determine the customs value. Where no such. sale is found, the transaction value of identical goods sold at a different commercial level and/or in different quantities, adjusted to take aocount of differences attributable to commercial level and/ or to quantity, shall be 'used, provided that such adjustments
can be made on the basis of demonstrated evidence which olearly establishes the reasonableness and accuracy of the adjustment, whether the adjustment leads to an increase or a decrease in the value. ^
20 Where the costs and charges referred to in Article 8.1(e) are included in the transaction value, an adjustment shall be made to take account of significant differences in such costs and charges between the imported goods and the identical goods in question arising from differences in distances and modes of transport.
3. If , in applying this Article , more than one transaction value of identical goods is found, the lowest such value shall "be used to determine the customs value of the imported goods.
4. In applying this Article, a transaction value for goods produced by a different person shall he taken into account only when no transaction value can he found under the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article for identical goods produced by the same person as the goods "being valued.
5. For the purposes of this Article, the transaction value of identical
imported goods means a customs value previously determined under Article 3, adjusted as provided for in paragraphs l(b) and 2 of this Article.
1. (a) The customs value of imported goods determined under the provisions of this Article shall be the transaction value of
similar goods sold for export to the Community and exported at or about the same time as the goods being valued.
(b) In applying this Article, the transaction value of similar goods in a sale at the same commercial level and in substantially the same quantity as the goods being valued shall 'be used to determine the customs value . Where no such sale is found , the transaction value of similar goods sold at a different commercial level and/or in different quantities, adjusted to take account of differences attributable to commercial level and/or to quantity, shall be used, provided that such adjustments can be made on the
basis of demonstrated evidence which clearly establishes the reasonableness and accuracy of the adjustment, whether the adjustment leads to an increase or a decrease in the value.
2. Where the costs and charges referred to in Article 8.1(e) are included
in the transaction value,' an adjustment shall be made to take account of significant differences in such costs and charges between the imported goods and the similar goods in question arising from differences in distances and
modes of transport.
3. If , in applying this Article , more than one transaction value of similar goods is found, the lowest such value shall be used to determine the customs value of the imported goods.
4. In applying this Article, a transaction value for goods produced by a different person shall be taken into account only when no transaction value can be found under the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article for similar goods produced by the same person as the goods being valued.
5. For the purposes of this Article, the transaction value of similar imported goods means a customs value previously determined under Article 3, adjusted as provided for in paragraphs l(b) and 2 of this Article.
1. (a) If the imported goods or identical or similar imported goods are sold in the Community in the condition as imported, the
customs value of imported goods determined under the provisions of this Article shall be based on the unit price at which the imported goods or identical or similar imported goods are so sold in the greatest aggregate quantity, at or about the time of the importation of the goods being valued, to persons who are not related to the persons from whom they buy such goods, subject to deductions for the following -
(i) either the commissions usually paid or agreed to be paid or the additions usually made for profit and general expenses (including the direct and indirect costs of marketing the goods in question) in connection with sales in the Community of imported goods of the same class or kind;
(ii) the usual costs of transport and insurance and associated costs incurred within the Community; and
(iii) the customs duties and other taxes payable in the Community by reason of the importation or sale of the goods.
(b) If neither the imported gooiis nor identical nor similar imported goods are sold at or about the time of importation of the goods being valued, the customs value of imported goods determined under the provisions of this Article shall, subject otherwise to- the provisions of paragraph l(a) of this Article, be based on
the unit price at which the imported goods or identical or similar imported goods are sold in the Community in the condition as imported at the earliest date after the importation of the goods being valued but before the expiration of ninety days
2. If neither the imported goods nor identical nor similar imported goods sire sold in the Community in -the oondition as imported , then , if the importer so requests, the customs value shall be based on the unit price at which the imported goods, after further processing, are sold in the greatest aggregate quantity to persons in the Community who are not related to the
, persons from whom they buy such goods, due allowance being made for the value added by such processing and the deductions provided for in paragraph l(a) of this Article. '
3. In this Article , the unit price at which the imported goods are sold in the greatest aggregate quantity is the price at which the greatest number of units is sold in sales to persons who are not related to the persons from whom they buy such goods at the first commercial level after importation at which such sales take place .
4. Any sale in the Community to a person who supplies directly or indirectly free of charge or at reduced cost for use in connection with the
• production and sale for export of the imported goods any of the elements specified in Article 8.1(b), should not be taken into account in establishing the unit price for the purposes of this Article.
5. For the purposes of paragraph l(b) of this Article-, the "earliest date" shall be the date by which sales of the imported goods or of identical or similar imported goods are made in sufficient quantity to establish the unit price.
1. The customs value of imported goods determined under the provisions of this Article shall be based on a computed value. Computed value shall consist of the sum of –
(a) the cost or value of materials and fabrication or other processing employed in producing the imported goods;
(b) an amount for profit and general expenses equal to that usually reflected in sales of goods of the same class or kind as the goods being valued which are made by producers in the country of exportation for export to the Community}
(c) the cost or value of the items referred to in Article 8.1(e).
2. A customs administration may not require or compel any person not
resident in the Community to produce for examination, or to allow access to, any account or other record for the purposes of determining a computed value. However, information supplied by the producer of the goods for
the purposes of determining the customs value under the provisions of this
Article may he verified in a non-Community country by the Customs authorities of a Member State with the agreement of the producer and provided that such authorities give sufficient advance notice to the government of the country in question and the latter does not object to the investigation.
3. The cost or value of materials and fabrication referred to in paragraph l(a) above, shall include the cost of elements specified in Article 8.1(a)(ii) and (iii). It shall also include the value, duly apportioned, of any element specified in Article 8.1(b) which has been
supplied directly or indirectly by the buyer for use in connection with the production of the imported goods. The value of the elements specified in Article 8.1(b)(iv) which are undertaken in the Community shall be included only to the extent that such elements are charged to the producer.
4. Where information other than that supplied by or on behalf of the producer is used for the purposes of determining a computed value, the customs authorities shall inform the importer, if the latter so requests, , of the source of such information, the data used and the oaloulations based upon such data, subject to the provisions of Article 10.
5. The Vgeneral expenses" referred to in paragraph l(b), above, covers
the direct and indirect costs of producing and selling the goods for export which are not included under paragraph l(a).
1. In determining the customs value under the provisions of Article 3, there shall be added to the price actually paid or payable for the imported goods –
(a) the following, to the extent that they are incurred by the buyer but are not included in the price aotually paid or payable for
the goods –
(i) commissions and brokerage, except "buying commissions;
(ii) the cost of containers which are treated as "being one for customs purposes with the goods in question;
(iii) the cost of packing whether for labour or materials;
("b) the value, apportioned as appropriate, of the following goods and services where supplied directly or indirectly "by the "buyer free of charge or at reduced cost for use in connection with the production and sale for export of the imported goods, to the extent that such value has not been included in the price actually paid or payable –
(i) materials, components, parts and similar items incorporated in the imported goods;
(ii) tools, dies, moulds and similar items used in the production of the imported goods;
(iii) materials consumed in the production of the imported goods;
(iv) engineering, development, artwork, design work, and plans
and sketches undertaken elsewhere than in the Community and
necessary for the production of theimported goods; »
(c) royalties and licence fees related to the goods being valued that the buyer must pay, either directly or indirectly, as a
condition of sale of the goods being valued, to the extent that such royalties and fees are not included in the price actually
paid or payable;
(d) the value of any part of the proceeds of any subsequent resale, disposal or use of the imported goods that accrues directly or indirectly to the seller;
(e) (i) the cost of transport and insurance of the imported goods; and
(ii) loading, unloading and handling charges associated with the transport of the imported goods
to the place of introduction of the goods into the customs territory of the Community,
2. Additions to the price actually paid or payable shall be made under this Article only on the basis of objective and quantifiable data.
3. No additions shall "be made to the price actually paid or payable in determining the customs value except as provided in this Article.
4. In this Article, the term "buying commissions" means fees paid "by an importer to his agent for the service of representing him abroad in the purchase of the goods being valued. -
Notwithstanding paragraph l(c) of this Article -
(i) charges for the right to reproduce the imported goods in the ' Community shall not be added to the price actually paid or
payable for the imported goods in determining the oustoms value ; and
(ii) payments made by the buyer for the right to distribute or resell
the imported goods shall not be added to the price actually paid or payable for the imported goods if such payments are not a
condition of the sale for export to the Community of the imported goods .
2. Where such a rate does not exist, the rate of exchange to be used shall be determined by the procedure laid down in Article 19.
1. With a view to determining value for customs purposes and without prejudice to national provisions which confer wider powers on the customs authorities of Member States, any person or undertaking directly or indirectly concerned with the import transactions in question shall supply all neoessary information and documents to those authorities within the time limits prescribed by the latter.
2. All information which is by nature confidential or which is provided on a confidential basis for the purposes of customs valuation shall be treated as strictly confidential by the authorities concerned who shall not
Where factors used to determine the value for customs purposes of
goods are expressed in a currency other than that of the Member State where' the valuation is made, the rate of exchange to be used shall be the latest selling rate recorded on the most representative exchange market or markets of that Member State at the material time for valuation for customs purposes.
 disclose it without the specific permission of the person or government providing such information, except to the Commission or to the extent that it may "be required to "be disclosed in the context of judicial proceedings,
3. Information and documents supplied to the Commission "by a Member
State pursuant to paragraph 2 may "be used "by the Commission only for the purpose for which they were supplied. They shall be subject to professional secrecy and in particular may not be communicated to persons other than those who, within the institutions of the Communities or the Member States, are required to have access to them by virtue of the functions they exercise.
If, in the course of determining the customs value of imported goods, it becomes necessary to delay the final determination of such customs value, the importer shall nevertheless be able to withdraw his goods from customs if, where so required, he provides sufficient guarantee in the form of a surety , a deposit or some other appropriate instrument , covering the ultimate payment of customs duties for which the goods may be liable.
Upon written request, the importer shall have the right to an explanation in writing from the customs administration of the country of importation as to how the customs value of his imported goods was determined.
1. For the purposes of Article 8.1(e), the place of introduction into the customs territory of the Community shall be*
(a) for goods carried by sea, the port of unloading, or the port of transhipment, subject to transhipment being certified by the customs authorities of that port ;
(b) for goods carried by sea and then, without transhipment, by inland waterway, the first port where unloading can take place either at the mouth of the river or canal or further inland, subject to proof being furnished to the customs authorities that the freight to the port of unloading is higher than that to the first port ;
(c) for goods carried "by rail, inland waterway, or road, "the place where "the first customs office is situated;
(d) for goods carried "by other means, the place where the frontier of the customs territory of the Community is crossed.
2. For goods introduced into the customs territory of the Community
and then carried to a destination in another part of that territory through , the territory of a third country, or "by sea after passing through a part of
the customs territory of the Community, the place of introduction into the Community to he taken into consideration shall, subject to paragraph 3, "be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19.
3. For goods introduced into the customs territory of the Community and carried directly from one of the French overseas departments or Greenland to another part of the customs territory of the Community or vice versa, the place of introduction to "be taken into consideration shall be the place
referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 situated in that part of the customs territory of the Community from which the goods came, if they were unloaded or transhipped there and this was certified by the Customs authorities*
When those conditions are not fulfilled, the place of introduction to be taken into consideration shall be the place specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 situated in that part of the customs territory of the Community to which the goods are consigned.
1. Where goods are carried by the same means of transport to a point
beyond the place of introduction into the customs territory of the Community, v transport costs shall be assessed in proportion to the distance covered
outside and inside the customs territory of the Community, unless evidence is produced to the customs authorities to show the costs that would have been incurred under a general compulsory schedule of freight fates for the carriage of the goods to the place of introduction into the customs territory of the Community.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not apply to goods sent by post. Special provisions may be adopted for snch goods in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19» ^ view of the special nature of charges in international postal services.
 2. Where goods axe invoiced at a uniform free domicile price whioh corresponds to the price at the place of introduction, transport costs
within the Community shall not be deducted from that price . However , such deduction shall he allowed if evidence is produced to the customs authorities that the free–frontier price would be lower than the uniform free domicile price.
3. Where transport is free or provided by the buyer, transport costs
to the place of introduction , calculated in' accordance with the . schedule of freight rates normally applied for the same modes of transport, shall be included in the value for customs purposes.
1. Standard average values may be established for the determination of the value for customs purposes of certain goods.
2. Such standard average values may be established either for the Community as a whole or for each Member State.
3. For the purposes of paragraph 2 hereof, Belgium and Luxembourg may be regarded as constituting a single Member State.
4* Such goods shall be specified, and the rules and criteria for the establishment of such standard average values shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19»
5. The said rules and criteria shall be consistent with the provisions of Article 6.1(a).
The particulars and documents to be furnished to the customs authorities for purposes of application of this Regulation shall where
necessary be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19.
1. A Customs Valuation Committee (hereinafter called the "Committee11) shall be set up and shall consist of representatives of the Member States
with a representative of the Commission as Chairman.
The Committee shall draw up its own rules of procedure* Ν
Article 18 The Committee may examine –
(i) all questions relating to the application of this Regulation, and
(ii) all questions relating to the work of the Technical Committee on Customs Valuation established tinder the auspices of the Customs Co–operation Council under the Agreement
referred to it by its Chairman, either on his own initiative or at the request of a representative of a Member State.
Article 19 1. Provisions necessary for –
(a) the introduction into Community law of those provisions of Part I and Annex I of the Agreement which are not reflected in this Regulation, and
(b) the implementation of Title I of this Regulation,
shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article.
2. The representative of the Commission shall submit to the Committee a draft of the provisions to be adopted. The Committee shall deliver an Opinion on the draft within a time limit set by the Chairman having regard to the urgency of the matter. Decisions shall be taken by a majority of forty–one votes, the votes of Member States being weighted as provided in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty. The Chairman shall not vote.
3« (a) The Commission shall adopt the provisions envisaged if they are in accordance with the Opinion of the Committee.
(b) If the provisions envisaged are not in accordance with the Opinion of the Committee , or if no Opinion is delivered , the Commission shall without delay submit to the Council a proposal with regard to the provisions to "be adopted, The Council shall act by a qualified majority.
(o) If, within three months of the proposal being submitted to it, the Council has not aoted, the proposed provisions shall be adopted by the Commission.
The provisions of this Regulation shall not affect the provisions contained, in acts of the Council or of the Commission) or laid down by
Member States in accordance with such instruments, regarding the determination of the value for customs purposes of goods which enter into home use after a customs procedure other than that relating to direct home use has been applied.*
Each Member State shall inform the Commission of the provisions it adopts for the application of this Regulation. The Commission shall communicate this -information to the other Member States*
1. Title II of this Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1980.
2* Article 15 shall enter into force on a day to be prescribed by the Commission by Regulation* ,
3* All other provisions of this Regulation shall enter into force on . 1 July 1980 and shall apply to all goods in respect of which the material time for valuation for customs purposes occurs after 30 June 1980*
4. Regulation (EEC) Ho 803/68 of the Council of 27 June 1968, as amended} shall not apply to any goods in respect of whioh the material time for valuation for customs purposes occurs after 30 June 1980*
5. Regulations made by the Commission in implementation of the said Regulation (EEC) No 803/68 shall not apply to any goods in respect of which the material time for valuation for customs purposes occurs after
30 June I98O unless the Commission by Regulation and as a transitional matter extends their application for a period not exceeding three months
in the case of any such Regulation. .
6. Provisions necessary for the implementation of paragraphs 2 and 5 of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 19*
■ This Regulation shall "be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council The President
