In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
Stonehaven •GND
/ Land's End
North Foreland Humber Cullcrcoats Wiek
Anglesey lltracombe Niton Stonehaven Portshead
Land's End Valentia
–R: ander –S:
North Foreland Humber Cullercoau W.ck
Land's End Valentia Malin hlead
acciughe (Engraulis encrasicholus)
North Foreland Humber Cullercoats Wiek
Land 5 End
(Presented by the Commission to the Council)
In order to allow resumption of reciprocal fishing by the Community and the Faroe Islands pending the conclusion of consultations to finalise an arrangement for the year 1980, the Council on 15 January 1980 adopted a Regulation (EEC) No. 176/80 laying down certain interim measures for the conservation and management of fishery resources applicable to vessels registered in the Faroe Islands (1) for the period from 11 January to
The consultations between the Community and the Faroe Islands have not
been completed in time to permit the adoption before 15 March 1980 of
definitive arrangements for 1980 based upon the conclusions of the said
consultations. It is therefore appropriate to prolong the interim rules
authorising Faroese vessels to fish in the Community zone until 30 June 1980 .
The quotas laid down in the present proposal for a Regulation are based on 75 % of the yearly quotas for 1980 offered by the Community to the
Faroe Islands during the abovementioned consultations of 12 and 13 February 1980. The Commission, however, reserves the right to modify these
quotas in line with the eventual definitive results of the consultations scheduled for 13 March 1980 .
0J No L 22 of 29.1.1980, p. 1
laying down * certain interim measures for the conservation and management of fishery resources applicable to vessels registered in the Faroe Islands
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 103
thereof.
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
\X'he.rcas on 3 November 1976 the Council adopted a set of resolutions concerning certain external and
internal aspects of the common fisheries policy;
Whereas the Community on the one hand and the Government of Denmark and the Home Government of the Faroe Isl.inds on thfother have signed a Framework Agreement on fisheries; --
>Micreas the Commission has submitted the Agreement to the Council for approval;
tliereas the Community, the Government of Denmark and the Home Government of the Faroe Islands have held consultations concerning their mutual fishing allocations for 1JCj «
Whereas during these consultations the delegations - agreed to recommend their respective authorities that jhey fix certain catch quotas for'.^CCfor vessels of Me
other parry; '
Whereas fishing by Faroese vessels in he fishing lone of-
the Community is authorized from 11 January. ;
Where.is in order to avoid an interruption of the Community's and the Faroe Islands' reciprocal fishing attivnies it is necessary that the Community adopt a new interim regime •' allowing fishing by Faroese vessels in the Community's fishing zone as from 16 March 1980 until . '
Vhereas, in order to bring this system into force as soon as possible, it is necessary to adopt these interim measures, on the basis of Article 103 of the Treaty, >
(1) 0J No L 22 of 29.1.1980, p. 1.-
1* Fishing by vessels registered in the Faroe Islands in * the 200 mile rone of the Member States in the North Sea, Skagerrak, Kattegat, the Baltic Sea, the Labrador Sea Davis Strait, Baffin Bay and the Atlantic Ocean
icaï and .cruantiTative Tïmits.laia aowzi tïieréin
ttiye Timits.laid down tlier^in and in . accordçnçe wixh tne conditions laia down in
limited to the parrs of the 200 mile f.sh.ng ^ne lying • seawards of 12 nautical miles from the base-lines from which the territorial seas of Member States are measured with the exception that fishing in the Skagerrak is allowed seawards of four nautical miles
from the base-lines of Denmark.
3. Notwithstanding paragraph 1 unavoidable
by-catches of a species for which no quota is established in a zone shall be permitted within the limits hxed in the conservation measures in force in the tone concerned. • » '
4. By-catchesinagivenzoneofaspeciesforwhicha quota is established in that rone shall be.counted against the quota concerned.
1 Vessels fishing under the quotas established in Article 1 shall comply with the con<*rvanon and control measures and all other provisions governing fishing in
the zones referred to in that Article.
2. Vessels referred to in paragraph t shall keep a logbookinwhichtheinformationsetoutinAnnexIIis to be entered. -
3 Vessels referred to in paragraph 1 except those fishing in ICES divismn 1><V3 shall transmit: to the
Commission the infomuM- ■« *»« in Annex III. TJis information is to be transmitted according to the rules
set out in this Annex. »
4. The registration letters and numbers of the vessels
. 're/erred to .n paragraph 1 must be clearly marked on the bow of the vessels on both sides.
2 Fishing authorized under paragraph 1 shall be
(2) The Home Government of the Faroe Islands broken down "by species and by has undertaken to send to the Commission ^ formation brokendown V and
ICES area, concerning catches landed by vessels registered in the Faroe fishing for the quotas established by this Regulation. ' '
1. Fishing within ICES sub-areas IV, VI, VII, XIV and i'T^'n sone 1 ; under the quotas established in Arri^k- ,1 shall be permitted only where a licence issued by the Commission on behalf of the Community is held
v on board and where the conditions set out in the licence , are observed.
2. 'Ihe 'delivery of licences for the purpose" of paragraph 1 shall be subject to the condition that the number of licences valid on any orie day shall not exceed: > .' . ; "
When an application for a licence is submitted to the Commission, the following information shall be supplied :
(a) name of the vessel;
(a) 18 for fishing mackerel, horse-mackerel and sprat, ' in ICES sub-areas IV and VI (north of 56° 30' N);
(b) 22 Jor fishing Norway pout and sandeei in ICES sub-area IV and in ICES division Via (north of 56° ■W N);
(h) call sien ?nd radio frequency;
(i) intended method of fishing;
(j) intended area of fishing;
(k) species for which it is intended to fish; (1) period for which a licence is requested.
(c) J8forfishingNortherndeep-waterprawn,in.1TAP0 • zone .. 1 (east of the median line);
(d) 10 for fishing ling and tusk in ICES division Vlb;
(e) 10 for fishing Greenland halibut and redfish in •- NAFO zone 1 1, (cast of the median line) and
(f) 17 for fishing blue whiting in ICES sub-area VII
j (west of 12° \X') and ICES divisions Via (north of '
56° .50' N) and Vlb.
3. Each licence shall be valid for one vessel only. When several vessels arc taking part in the same fishing operation, each vessel shall be in possession of a licence. •
4. Licences may be cancelled with a view to the issue of new licences. The cancellation shall take effect from the date of the surrender of the licence to the
Fishing for the quotas referred to in Article 1 for ling and tusk is only allowed by use • of the method • commonly known as iong-lining', ,
Fishing in Skagerrak for the quotas referred to in Article 1 is subject to the following provisions: ' .
Regulation (EEC) No 1178/79 of
12 June 1979 laying down certain measures for the conservation and
3. > the use of trawl and purse seine for the capture of pelagic species is prohibited from Saturday midnight to Sunday midnight.
The competent authorities of the Member States shall take appropriate steps, including the regular inspection of vessels, to ensure the enforcement of this Regulation.
management of fishery resources applicable to vessels registered
in the Faroe Islands . ( 1 ) shall remain valid until 15 April 1980.
directed fishing for herring is prohibited from 1 January to 31. March and from 1 October to 31 December 1 980 .
directed fishing for herring for purposes other than human consumption is prohibited;
(c) external identification letters and numbers;' (ci) port of registration;
(c) name and address of the owner or charterer; (0 gross tonnage and overall length;
Where an infringement is duly established the Member
States shall, without delay, inform the Commission of
the name of the vessel involved and of any action they have taken.
I . This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of
its publication in the Official Journal- of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 16 March 1980 until 30 June 1980.
This Regulation shall "be "binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council The President
Blue whiting Greenland halibut
Other white fish (by-catches only)
Fishing quotas for the period from 11 january fo 30 june 1980
Area within which fishing is authorized
(1) Limited in the way by a line drawn from the lighthouse of Hansholm to the lighthouse of Lindesnes and in the south by a line drawn from Skagen lighthouse to thevlighthouse of Tistlarna and from there to the nearest coast of Sweden.
(2) North of 56 30«N.
(3) This quota may he exceeded hy a maximum of 5 000 tonnes provided that the total catches of
Norway pout, 6andeel and sprat do not exceed 50.000 tonnes.
(4) Of which no more than 10.000 tonnes in ICES division Via north of 56 SO'N#
(5) East of the median line and south of 68°K» (6) West of 12 W.
The following details are to be entered in the logbook after each haul when fishing within the 1 200 nautical mile fishing zone off the coasts of the Member States of the Community which ii j covered by Community rules on fisheries :
1.1. the quantity (in kg) of each species caught ;
1.2. the date and the time of the haul ;
1-J. the geographical position in which the catches were made ;
1.4. the fishing method used. I
The following logbook cone to be used when fishing, within the joint management zone of the ; Community and Canada in the statistical zone NAFO 0 + 1. * ■;
Ciitch by species (kilogrjims - roiundweight
tow bejiin
tow finished
of nets or lines
Round weight (kilograms) processed today for human consumption I Roundweight(kilograms)processedtodayforreduction
1. The information to be transmitted to the Commission and the timetable for its transmission are as follows :
»- .~ 1.1 . On each occasion the vessel enten ; ' - *
1.1.1. the 200 nautical mile fishing zone off the coasts of the Member States of the Community which is covered by the fisheries jurisdiction of these Member States ;
1.1.2. that part of sub-zones 0 and 1 as defined by the Convention on Future Multilateral Coopera­ tion in the North West Atlantic Fisheries situated in the jurisdiction of Denmark or Canada :
(a) the information specified under point 1.4 below ;
(b) the quantity (in kg) of each species of fish in the hold ; ,
(c) the date and NAFO sub-zone or ICES division within which the captain intends to commence fishing.
Where the fishing operations necessitate more than one entry into the zones referred to under 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 on a given day one communication shall suffice on first entry.
1JL On each occasion the vessel leaves :
1.2.1. the zone referred to under 1.1.1 : v
(a) the information specified under point 1.4 below ;
(b) the quantity (in kg) of each species of fish in the hold ;
(c) the quantity (in kg) of each species caught since the previous transmission ;
, (d) the ICES division or NAFO sub-zone in which the catches were taken ;
(e) the quantity (in kg) of each species transferred to other vessels since the vessel entered the zone and the identification of the vessel to which the transfer was made ; -
(f) the quantity (in kg) of each species landed in a port of the Community since the vessel entered the zone ;
liJ. the zone referred to under 1.1.2 after notification at least 48 hours before the vessel leaves, the information referred to under (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) ;
(g) the quantity (in kg) of discards specified by species since the previous transmission. •
At weekly intervals, commencing on the seventh day after the vessel first enters the zones referred to under 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 :
(a) the information specified under point 1 .4 below ;
(b) the quantity (in kg) of each species caught since the previous transmission ; ' (c) the ICES division or NAFO sub-zone in which the catches were made.
(a) the name, call sign, identification numbers and letters of the vessel name, th<> name of its master ;
(b) the licence number if the vessel is under licence ;
(c) ihc scrial number of the message ;
(d) identification of the type of message ; . i '
'(e) the date, the time and the geographical position of the vessel.
The information specified under point I shall be transmitted to the Commission of the Euro­ pean Communities in Brussels (telex address 241 89 FISF.U-B) via one of the radio stations listed under point 3 below and in the form specified under point 4.
If it is impossible for reasons of force majeure for the message to be transmitted by the vessel,
it may be transmitted on the vessel's behalf by another vessel.
Name of radio station
North Foreland Humber Cullercoat* Wielt
■ Call sign of radio station
4. Form of communication* .
following order :
– name of vessel,
– external identification lettera and numbers,
– serial number of the message for the voyage in question,
The information specified under point 1 concerning the fishing operations in the zones referred to under 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 shall contain the following elements, which shall be given in the
– indication of the type of message according to the following code :
– message – when entering one of the zones referred to under 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 : IN,
– message – when leaving one of the zones referred to under 1.1.1 and 1.1.2 : OUT, – weekly message: WKL, ■ , , '
– the geographical position,
– the ICES division or NAFO sub-zone in which fishing is expected to commence, . •
 – the date on which fishing it expected to commence,
– the quantity in kg of each species of fish in the hold using the code mentioned in point 5,
– the ICES division or NAFO sub-zone in which the catches were made,
– the quantity (in kg) of each species transferred to other vessels since the previous transmis­ sion, '
– the name and call sign Of the vessel to which the transfer was made, ' '
– the quantity (in kg) of each species landed in a port of the Community since the previous transmission , .
– the name of the mister, • '
5. The code to be used to indicate the quantities of fish on board as mentioned in point 4 above :
the quantity (in kg) of each species discarded since the previous transmission using the code mentioned in point 5 only in the case of fisheries operations in the zones referred to under
Greenland halibut (Reinhardtius hippoglossoides). Cod (Gadus morrhua).
Round-nose grenadier (Coryphaenoides rupettris). y Saithe (Pollachius virons).
R. Other,
Whiting (Merlangus inerlangus). Herring (Clupea harengus), Sandeel (Ammodytes sp).
(2) Nord for 56°30'N.
p'oi'iion tf<> "*kìitts begynJdu
mined i _1_
Land s End Valentia Malin Head Boulogne Brest
