In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
Article 11(3) of Regulation No 136/66/EEC on the establishment of a common orga­ nization of the market in oils and fats provides for the allocation of a certain percentage of the consumption aid to publicity campaigns and, possibly, to other campaigns aimed at promoting the consumption of olive oil in the Community.
For the 1978/79 and 1979/80 marketing years, the Council fixed this percentage
at 6 % and 4.5 % respectively.
Article 11(4) of Regulation No 136/66/EEC specifies that the general rules of appli­ cation of that Article will be laid down by the Council, acting by a qualified ma­ jority on a proposal from the Commission.
The object of this proposal for a Regulation is to submit for the Council 's appro­ val those general rules of application, defining the areas in which, in the opinion of the Commission, the campaigns to be undertaken should be carried out so as to contribute in the most effective manner possible to the desired upturn in consump­ tion .
There is, on the one hand, the need to disseminate existing information, especially as regards the various qualities of olive oil and, on the other, the search for
new outlets by means of a market study and advertising and promotion campaigns . Moreover, research work, especially the kind aimed at making a scientific examina­ tion of the nutritional aspects of olive oil, should be encouraged.
Finally, special reduced-price sales to certain classes of consumers could be carried out .
The campaigns specified above will be decided on by the Commission, following consultations with bodies specializing in market studies and advertising studies as well as with research institutes. Every year before 31 October the Commission will communicate to the Council the programme of campaigns envisaged. However, as regards special sales, these will 'be decided on in accordance with the 'Management Committee' procedure .
This proposal entails no financial effect in itself. At the time of the communica­ tion to the Council of the programme of campaigns envisaged, the Commission will state the amount available as a result of deductions from consumption aid, as well as the distribution of the amounts for the various campaigns envisaged. The deduc­ tions from consumption aid already decided on are reckoned at 2.4 MECU (1978/79 marketing year ) and 3.5 . MECU ( 1979 / 80 marketing year ).
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No .„./80 of .....
Laying down general rules of application for campaigns aimed at promoting the con­ sumption of olive oil in the Community
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation No 136/66/EEC of 22 September 1966 on the esta- blishment of a common organization of the market in oils and fats ( 1 ) , as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 590/79(2), and in particular Article 11(4) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Comnission,
Whereas Article 11(3) of Regulation No 136/66/EEC provides that a percentage of
the consumption aid shall be allocated to publicity campaigns and, possibly, to other projects aimed at promoting the consumption of olive oil in the Community;
Whereas the market situation for olive oil in the Community is showing a drop in consumption which may eventually lead to a structural imbalance between supply and demand and whereas in order to prevent such a situation developing, the existing system of consumption aid now needs to be supplemented by the implementation of a consumer information programme and other campaigns to promote olive oil in the Community ,
Under the campaigns referred to in Article 11(3) of Regulation No 136/66/EEC, the following measures may be taken :
(a) dissemination of existing information, in particular as regards the various qualities of olive oil;
(b) market studies aimed at enlarging the olive oil market in the Community;
( c ) advertising and promotion campaigns to encourage consumption in the Community
of olive oil and of products in the preparation of which olive oil is involved;
(d) research work, in particular work having as its object a scientific examination of the nutritional aspects of olive oil;
( e ) special reduced-price sales to certain classes of consumers .
The measures set out under (a) to (d) shall be decided on by the Commission.
The measures referred to in Article 1(e) shall be decided on in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38 of Regulation No 136/ 66/ EEC.
The Commission shall communicate to the Council every year before 31 October the programme of measures which it anticipates putting in hand in the course of the following marketing year.
With a view to setting up such a programme, the Commission may consult bodies spe­ cializing in market studies and advertising studies as well as research institutes.
Detailed rules governing the application of this Regulation shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 38 of Regulation No 136/66/EEC.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its pu­ blication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation sjiall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
1. Article 11(3) of Regulation No 136/66/EEC on the establishment of a common orga­ nization of the market in oils and fats provides for the allocation of a certain percentage of the consumption aid to publicity campaigns and, possibly, to other campaigns aimed at promoting the consumption of olive o.iI in the Community. •
For the 1978/79 and 1979/80 marketing years, the Council fixed this percentage at 6 % and 4.5 % respectively.
• Article .11(4) of Regulation No- 136/66/EEC specifies that the general rules of appli­ cation of that Article will be laid down by the Council, acting by a qualified ma­ jority on a proposal from the Commission.
The object of this proposal for a Regulation is to submit for the Council 's appro­ val those general rules of application, defining the areas in which, in the opinion of the Commission, the campaigns to be undertaken should be carried out so as to contribute in the most effective manner possible to the desired upturn in consump­ tion .
There is, on the one hand,„the need to disseminate existing information, especially as regards the. various qualities of olive oil and, on the other, the search for
new outlets by meansof a market study and advertising and promotion campaigns. Moreover, research work, especially the kind aimed at making a scientific examina­ tion of the nutritional aspects of olive oil, should be encouraged. _ :
, Finally, special reduced-price sales to certain classes of consumers could be carried out. . ' '
The campaigns specified above will be decided on by the Commission, following consultations with bodies specializing in market studies and advertising studies as well as with research institutes. Every year before 31 October the Commission \ will communicate to the Council the programme of campaigns envisaged. However, as regards special sales, these will be decided on in accordance with the 'Management Committee * procedure . i .
2. This proposal entails no financial effect in itself. At the time of the communica­ tion to the Council of the programme of campaigns envisaged, the Commission will state the amount available as a result of deductions from consumption aid, as well as the distribution of the amounts for the various campadgils envisaged. The deduc­ tions from consumption aid already decided on are reckoned at 2.4 MECU (1978/79 . marketing year) and 3.5. MECU (1979/80 marketing year).
laying down general implementing rules for campaigns aimed at promoting the con­
sumption of olive oil in the Community
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation No 136/ 66 / EEC of 22 September 1966 on the esta- blishment of a common organization of the market in oils and fats ( 1 ) . as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 590/79(2), and in particular ArticLe 11(4) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Comnission,
Whereas ArticLe 11(3) of Regulation No 136/66/EEC provides that a percentage of
the (Dnsumption aid shall be allocated to publicity campaigns and, possibly, to other projects aimed at promoting the consumption of dive oiL in the Community;
Whereas the market situation for olive oil in the Community is showing a drop in consumption which may eventually lead to a structural imbalance between supply and demand and whereas in order to prevent such a situation developing, the existing system of consumption aid now needs to be supplemented by the implementation of a consumer information programme and other campaigns to promote olive oiL in the Community ,
Under the campaigns referred to in Article 11(3) of Regulation No 136/66/EEC, the following measures may be taken :
(a) dissemination of existing information, in particular as regards the various qualities of olive oil ;
(b) market studies aimed at enlarging the olive oil market in the Community;
( c ) advertising and promotion campaigns to encourage consumption in - the Community
of olive oil and of products in the preparation of which olive oil is invoLved;
 (d) research work, in particular work having as its object a scientific examination . of . the nutritional aspects of olive oit ;
(e) special reduced-price sales to certain classes of consumers.
The measures set out under Article 1 (a) to (d) shall be decided on by the Commission
The measures referred to in Article 1(e) shall be decided on in accordance with „ the procedure laid down in Article 38 of Regulation No 136/66/EEC.
The Commission shall communicate to the Council every year before 31 October the programme of measures which it anticipates putting in hand in the course of the following marketing year .
With a view to drawing up such a programme, the Commission may consult bodies spe­ cializing in market ' and advertising studies as well as research institutes.
Detailed rules governing the implementation of this Regulation shall be laid down in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38 of Regulation No 136/66/EEC.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its pu­ blication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at ........ ■ - - . For the Council
