In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(1 ) cf. paragraphe 3 b) ci-dessus .
?.. Thé
Cncan Ylang
- i is bruts
- coton - thé
 Memorandum to the Members of the Commission (from Mr Tugendhat and Mr Cheysson)
Subject: 1 The Commission's comments on the special report of the Court of Auditors concerning the operation of the export earnings stabilization system (Stabex)
The Court of Auditors adopted the report in question (see the Annex)
on 19 July 1979, and did not inform the Commission about the comments it contains when they were being drafted. The report was forwarded to the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission. In its covering letter to the Cocmissioni the Court omitted to mention the Commission's general right to reply.
The Court's special report contains certain inaccuracies and unjustified criticisms of the Commission's operations. The Commission should therefore take a stand on the matter.
The Members of the Commission are asked:
(a) toadopttheCommission'sattachedcommentsonthespecialreportof the Court of Auditors concerning the operation of the export earnings stabilization system (Stabex)j
(b) todecidetoforwardthemtotheEuropeanParliament,theCounciland the Court of Auditors with the attached letters.
 The Commission's comments on the special report adopted by the Court of Auditors of the European Communities on 19 July 1979 concerning the operation of Stabex (export earnings stabilization system)
Shortly before the signing of the second EEC-ACP Lome Convention, the Court of Auditors, in a special paper based on the experience acquired over three years of applying the system, took an overall look at the operating of the Stabex system. The Commission welcomes the fact that the Court has turned its attention to the Stabex system, as this gives the Commission the opportunity to set out its thoughts on the system and comment on certain different interpretations, criticisms and different opinions concerning
the basic principles of the system. . ' \
I. Problems arising out of the interpretation of some of the rules governing the system '
1. Transfers to the Ivory Coast and the People's Republic of the Congo in respect of 1975 *
In Section II.3 of the report, the Court returns to an airing of views which took place in the second half of 1976, and also involved the European Parliament. The point at issue was whether the two applications for transfer should be declared inadmissible pursuant to Article 19(4)(a) of the Convention, since the two countries that had made the applicationswere alleged to be responsible for the fall in export earnings as a result of their own economic policy measures . The Commission disagreed for the following reasons :
 2 . Departure from the
dependence threshold
Court notes that , in certain cases , the Commission 19(2 ) of the Convention rather flexibly , thereby
In "the same Section , the
has interpreted Article
bending its very clear meaning.
(a) The statistics clearly show that the fall in export earnings was almost entirely the result of low demand from the EEC Member States in 1975*
(b ) The measures in question were certainly taken but , in practice , either had no significant effect on wood exports (in the case of the Ivory Coast) or created a new state of affairs which had to be respected as a sovereign decision (in the case of the People's Republic of the Congo).
(c) Certain effects as a result of new economic rules introduced in the People's Republic of the Congo come not under the heading of "inadmissibility"
referred to in Article 19(4)(a) of the Convention but that of the "consultations" provided for in Article 19(4)(b)^.
( d ) Stabex is not a trade policy instrument but a development aid instrument .
This is the basis on which the transfers were made.
The Commission particularly wishes to emphasise that it has never accepted unfounded applications for transfers2 made in respect of situations where
the difference between actual earnings and the reference level (both expressed in the currency of the ACP applicant) were less than the percentage fixed in the Convention .
However, it was not possible to apply the latter provision in the case of the People's Republic of the Congo since there were no significant changes in total exports. There were such changes in the case of the Ivory Coast and it was for this reason that the base trigger for a transfer in response to an application by that country was reduced by over 7 m EUA.
See the annual report for 1975 (COM(76)656 final, p. 13)»
3. Excessively wide interpretation of the reference period
In Seotion III . 3 of the report the Court regrets that , in two cases , the Commission overstepped the mark in applying the Declaration of the
ACF-EEC Council of Ministers at Fiji, and thereby contravened Article 19(0 of the Convention.
The problem is that this Declaration, whioh was made at the ACF-EEC Council of Ministers* meeting of 14 April 1977* is not an easy one to implement. Acoording to the Declaration, any problems resulting from the application of the system should be resolved by interpreting existing provisions as generously as possible in all oases where difficulties which the international community acknowledges as being serious have occurred during the referenoe period. N
In the two oases referred to by the Court, and with regard to the same country, the requirements for applying the Declaration were oertainly met; the reference period included the last few years of a liberation war,
the effects of idiioh were acknowledged in UN resolutions as being serious. In order to reconcile the Declaration with Article 190 ) the Convention, the Commission proposed using the unit values for the reference years. Where quantities were oonoerned, the Commission took the years preceding the war in ,quest ion as it is undoubtedly the oase that these years more correotly reflect the production and export capacity than the results
of the abnormal years. With a view to returning to normality as quickly as possible after granting this exoeption to the rule set out in
Article 19(0 of the Convention, the Commission decided - in respeot of
the referenoe level – that the figures for one pr»-war year would be subtracted eaoh year and the quantities of the aotual reference period
as defined in Artiole 19( 1 ) would be added eaoh year.
II . Criticisms concerning the application of the system
In Section III.1 the Court again expresses its concern about the figures submitted by the ACP States and the cross-checking provided for in
Article 17(0 °f "the Convention^.
Where these problems as a whole are concerned, the Commission refers the
reader to dts statement on the Court 's annual report for the financial year
1977 • Some of the Court 's detailed remarks call for the following replies
from the Commission:
(a) The Commission has never stated that unresolved practical or administrative problems in the ACP States hamper the compilation of reliable statistical data. However,theCommissionattachesagreatdealofimportancetothe statement that no application for transfer has ever been unfavourably
received merely because the ACP applicant was unable to provide statistics to back up the problems encountered in exporting the products concerned, possibly with the technical assistance of the Commission's departments.
(b) The Commission does not, as a general rule, suggest to the ACP States that they should use the Community's import figures as a statistical basis.
The fact of the matter is that the figures are cross-checked on each occasion
and sometimes transfers are calculated on the be?*io of the Community 's import figures .
(c) The Commission departments involved are aware that, in many ACP States, depending on the sources concerned, at least two figures are available to express a single phenomenon. But this is only superficially contradictory;
See OJ of the European Communities, Vol. 21, No C 313, P* 149 et sea.
The report makes no reference to a related subject, namely the cif and fob coefficients# The Commission therefore concludes that the Court considers
that the application of these coefficients no longer poses problems.
a detailed examination shows that the figures differ for the good reason that they are obtained using different methods.
This can easily be explained qn the "basis of the statistios quoted by the Court: the figures of the Ministry of Planning are based on exporters* exportdeclarations. Thismeansthatanexportisestablishedandentered in the accounts when a declared quantity of a product leaves the country. On the other hand, the Central Bank does not enter the export in the accounts until the foreign currency earnings are established.
Thisexampleillustratesthetwobasicmethodsinuse. TheCommission departments have made a detailed on-the-spot examination of existing statistics and their sources in almost all the ACP States and, with the agreement of the national authorities, have established which of the existing statistical sources should be used to provide the data for Stabex.
2. Transfersappliedforandsumsactuallytransferred
The points made by the Court at the end of Section III.1 might give the impression that 1he amount actually transferred bears little resemblance to the amount applied for by the ACP State, as the transfer may be considerably more or considerably less than that applied for.
Butitwouldbeamistaketoleaveitatthat. Amongotherfactorsnottaken into consideration, the sum in ElIA
(a) is greatly affected, all other things being equal, by exchange rate
fluctuations as between the currency of the ACP State and the unit of
1 account ; and
^It is clear that the Court has calculated the sums in EUA which it quotes by converting the transfer applied for – as expressed in national currency – into
unitsofaccountattherateoftheday. Butevenifweacceptthatthe application was correctly established on the basis of consistent data - a problem which can only be resolved by cross-checking - a simple conversion of this type does not give an accurate result unless the exchange rates remainconstantthroughout*theperiodunderconsideration. Clearlythisis notthecaseinpractice. Themethodtobeappliedisdescribedin
Article 53(1) of the Financial Regulation for the Fourth EDF of 27 July 1976.
(b) depends on the results of the cross–checking and the consultations provided for in Article 19(4)(b).
3. Differences of opinion and disputes between the Commission and the ACP applicants
( a ) In Section III . 2 the Court refers to applications for transfers in
respect of 1975 which were not submitted until 1977 and. were rejected by the Commission. The Commission adopted its position on the basis of Article 18(3) of the Convention which provides that whatever balance remains at the end of each year of the first four years of application shall be carried forward automatically to the following year. From this provision it follows that
the balance of the 1975 instalment had to be carried over and added to
the 1976 instalment on 31 December 1976 . Hence , in 1 977 « there were no resources left with which to deal with applications in respect of 1975.
The ACP States concerned did not agree with this interpretation. As a result , the good offices procedure provided for in Article 8 1 ( 2 ) was implemented . When the procedure had been completed , the Commission was invited, by way of an exception, to examine the applications concerned in spite of the delay. In two of the three cases cited, the examination of the applications resulted in transfers being made because there had undoubtedly been a loss of earnings from trade with the Community.
The Commission agrees with the Court that any stabilizing effect such delayed transfers may have can only be accidental.
(b) The reason for the delays in payment resulting from the differences of opinion between the Commission and the ACP applicants is rather different. Such differences sometimes occur at the time of cross-checking (Article 17(1) of the Convention) or during any consultations which may be necessary
(Article 19(4 ) (b )). In such cases the Commission has to balance the obligation to pay quickly against the sound management obligation.
When, in Section VI.4, the Court regrets the long lead times involved in payment^ there is a certain contradiction between this and the statement
made elsewhere that certain technical problems have not been adequately resolved . The Commission 's attitude to this problem is clear ; within the limits imposed by the sound management obligation it tries to decide on transfers as quickly as possible.
The case of Uganda cited by the Court (Section III.1 )2 comes under this general principle as does the case of Mali, which also demonstrates that
the Commission adheres to Article 23(1 ) of the Convention whilst at the
same time meeting the obligations imposed by Article 17(5) of the Convention. In the case in point the Commission departments drew up new export figures for Mali based on the export declarations.
4 . Delays in payments
In Section IV.4»1 of the report -the Court notes that there is a time-lag of between 6 and 18 months between when the loss of export earnings is established and when compensation for this loss is paid.
The Commission takes this observation to be a comment on the ex post nature of the system . ' Looking at it . from this angle such delays – and possibly even longer ones – can in fact occur.
From the management angle, however, the most significant factor is the delay
between submission of the application for a transfer and the making of the
In connection with this time–lag, the Commission would add the following
See the next point in this connection.
The agreement on the transfer concerned was in fact signed on 11 July 1979•
^It is clear that the Commission cannot act before an application for a * transfer is submitted, and the submission deadline is 31 March of the year
following the year during which the loss was suffered, as stipulated in a
decision of the ACP-EEC Committee of Ambassadors. See point 5 below, where the advance is concerned .
Year of application
a percentage of total transfers
for the year
Average tirae-^ag for all transfers
5. Advances and how they are calculated
In Section V.4 of the report, the Court regrets that the Commission has not
made sufficient use of the advances procedure provided for in Article 19(6)
of the Convention, and has thereby contributed towards further delays in
payments. The Commission would point out that it is for the ACP States to
decide whether or not to apply for an advance. However, the Commission has •
the impression that, since 1978, the ACP States have been making greater use of this possibility.
As regards the calculation of the advances, the Commission departments use a rather complicated method designed to ensure that advance payments do not exceed a transfer on the basis of the statistics for the full year. As the total sum to be transferred for a year is not known at the time the advance is made, the Commission feels that it is impossible to assess the advance as a percentage of the transfer.
Also, the agreement signed when an advance is granted provides for any sum in excess of the total transfer to be repaid to the Commission.
2It goes without saying that where an application for a transfer requires statistical research or consultation under Article 19(4)» the ACP applicant and the Commission need further time to examine the case, if only in the interests of sound management.
6. Financial risk and relevant financial provisions
The Commission does not share the view expressed, m Section V.3 of the ♦
Court 's report that there is a fairly hi$i financial risk .
Firstly, it should be remembered that part of the fluctuation in earnings1 is absorbed by the dependence threshold and the fluctuation limit and does
not give rise to transfers. Nevertheless, as 1978 showed, there may be
years in which, in addition to a normal financial burden which is definitely ' less than the annual instalment , there may be special transfer applications .
Provision is made for coping with this type of situation in Article 18(2), (3) and (4) of the Convention.
In this connection, it would not be out of place to point out that the Commission considers that application of Article 18(4) of the Convention
is a completely normal administrative procedure which does not call into question the capacity of the system to function. Clearly when the sum set
aside for the system was decided, only normal transfers were taken into consideration and no thought was given to the possibility of special transfers. If the "savings" made in previous years together with any payments made under the reconstitution system were to prove insufficient for one year, it goes
without saying that transfers would have to be reduced.
7. Exchange risks in connection with the reconstitution of resources
As the Court pertinently points out in Section VIII.3, the ACP State has to bear the exchange risks if the purchasing power of its currency drops.
1„From the figures given by the Court at the beginning of Section V.3 it is impossible to determine whether the loss of export earnings refers to exports to all destinations or to Community destinations only. For the
purposes of Stabex, only the latter enter into consideration as a matter of course .
This risk is no more than a quid-Tro-quo for exchange rate gains made on receiptofatransfer^. ShouldthevalueofanACPState'scurrencyrise, the reverse obviously applies.
However, it would be a mistake to believe that this situation has any
bearing on the currency to be used for reconstitution . Hie only determining factor is the rate of exchange between the national currency of the ACP State and the unit of account, as the ACP State having to contribute towards reconstitution has to repay a given sum expressed
in units of account.
III. Observations on certain questions of principle
1. Focus on specific sectors
To some extent, Stabex's main objective is socio–economic; the transfer should be regarded as a contribution to maintain the flow of funds to
the production sector of an ACP State hit by economic or natural difficulties. The financial resources transferred are intended to
underpin the efforts of the State concerned to ease or eliminate the difficulties encountered by the sector hit. Stabex has to intervene as regards both employment and earnings.
Tt ic this focusing on specific sectors which is the original feature ofthesystemanddifferentiatesitfromallothersystems^. The
gSee above, SectionII.2 of this statement.
What is more, reconstruction is not "generally" but always paid in a
European currency, more specifically, in one or more Community currencies,
^namely the currency or currencies of the original transfer.
The well–known compensatory financing system of the IMP and the similar,
but as yet little known, system of the Arab Monetary Fund; however, the Commission has no information that Stabex has inspired certain FELT Eastern countries to establish a similar system in the ASEAN context (Court report, SectionX). Theideaisunderconsiderationbut,sofar,ithasnot reached the negotiation stage.
"transfers should not be regarded as general aid to help redress the balance of payments but as financial resources which the Government of the receiving country should channel , as a general rule , towards the affected sector ^.
However, this basic Stabex principle is not clearly reflected in the Articles of the first Chapter of Title II of the Lom£ Convention, although one of the preconditions is stated: stabilization relates to the export earnings from individual products and not from a basket
of products.
By contrast, at the negotiations preceding the first LomS Convention, it was impossible to secure acceptance of the second pre–condition, namely
that the ACP recipient should be recommended to channel the funds transferred to the sector hit. Article 20 rules this out.
.V However, the wording of Article 20 does not permit the conclusion that
the aim of Stabex is to permit general financial transfers to help redress the balance of payment2. What has been absent so far in the
rules governing the system is a simple formulation of the logical consequences of the individual products approach^. The principle of
the transfer being a sectoral aid has never been disputed and, as the reports on the use of the funds, not to mention the attitude of the ACP States in the recent negotiations, have indicated this has always been understood to be the case and accepted by the ACP States4•
In this connection, in Section X of its report the Court again alleges that the transfers have contributed towards the maintenance of outdated
^production structures. This point will be tackled below in Section III.3. This argument is repeated several times in the Court report; see Sections I,
^11 and X.
T3y contrast, Article 23(2) of the draft new Convention provides that the
funds transferred should be primarily devoted to maintaining the flow of .funds to the affected sector.
The Court fs statement in Section X that the ACP States have made every effort to transform the sytem into a guarantee of overall export earnings rather than a guarantee of revenue from certain specific products is unfair to the ACP States. Uiey have never shown any interest is giving up the
individual product approach in favour of an overall approach. Hie fact that, in the context of the individual product approach, they should have tried to obtain as complete and realistic a cover as possible for their risks in respect of export earnings is understandable and in their own interests .
2 . Monetary impact of Stabex transfers 1
Of course, it should not be concluded from the above statements that
the Commission fails to appreciate the effeot of Stabex transfers on
the ACP States * balances of payment . The inflow of foreign currency
is bound to increase the revenue of the receiving ACP State and
contribute , on a purely accounting level , towards improving the balance
of payments ; but these are incidental effects . Prom the economic point
of view, the important factor is that a Stabex transfer is not triggered
by the balance of payments and that the balance of payments is not, therefore, its target.
To this extent the fact that the transfers are made in a foreign currency
is a minor point. The currency is simply the indispensable vehicle for
the transfer of resources. Hie important point is that the ACP State is thereby able to provide funds for the affected sector without having to draw on its
own resources. Topical examples are the acquisition of seeds by a
drought-hit ACP State determined to resume production of the product
concerned, or the purchasing of spare parts for machinery for a sawmill.
The question of the currency used to make these indispensable purchases
is secondary. It is conceivable that they might be made not in the currency
of an industrial country, but, for instance in CFAF. What is important,
on the other hand, is that the Stabex transfer should enable the ACP State
to make such purchases without having to use its own resources; these can therefore be saved and used entirely for paying for imports or producing other goods and services.
3. The question of maintenance of outdated production structures
The Court touches on a question which is often raised, namely the risk of Stabex transfers contributing towards maintaining outdated production structures (Section X of the report).
See the Annex in connection with this point
 It should be pointed out first of all that this problem cannot arise
unless the sums transferred exceed a certain amount, although this differs
from one ACP State to the next , and unless , at the same time , there is a
certain continuity in the transfers. Hie Court itself (Section IX of the
report ) calls into question the validity of these two preconditions and the Commission is inclined to share its view\
Nevertheless , as has already been said , the Commission considers that the primary aim of Stabex is to contribute towards making the affected sectors viable and economic, and must therefore examine the theoretical possibility of Stabex transfers artificially maintaining outdated production structures.
Firstly, it should be said that experience shows that structural changes and the diversification of production structures are processes requiring not only considerable amounts of finance but also long periods of time, although the time required for the process of change differs as between industry and agriculture2• These are tasks which far exceed the relatively modest financial resources and periods of application of Stabex.
Secondly, it would be' shortsighted to describe as outmoded a production sector which does not meet the demands of an economics calculation. In
the raw materials sector the alarm signals sent out by the world market can change rapidly; what was still economic yesterday might be
Subject, of course, to a more detailed examination in due course by the departments responsible for this aspect. The departments concerned will concentrate on transfers of considerable sums and repeated transfers of
This is true not only of the developing countries; in several industrial sectors of developed countries the world market may send out alarm signals and the national authorities , may for various reasons , take no steps to adapt the structures.
m ■ ono.-nic todi.) and of primary economic importance tomorrow .
Besides , in the developing countries , as elsewhere , the State has to endeavour to achieve certain social objectives . For instance , although on a very competitive market, prices for raw sisal have been stagnating for some time at a level at which production .cannot possibly be economic, production cannot simply be stopped, Bince many jobs and livelihoods depend on this highly labour–intensive product.
On this problem, the Commission would therefore advise caution. It attaches importance to the principle expressly included in the second Lom£ Convention that transfers should basically benefit the affected sector. Only if a realistic assessment of the situation shows that this is not justifiable in a specific case may the funds be directed to other appropriate sectors for the purpose of diversification.
4. Limits to making the system more automatic
In several remarks , e.g. in Sections III . 3 and. V.3 , the Court advooates detailed rules to reduce the negotiation element inherent in several stages of the calculations preceding a transfer and thereby to make the system more automatic .
Hie Commission does not deny that at some points in the essentially automatic system there is a certain amount of discontinuity. In this connection, the Court is quite right in referring to the cross–checking provided for in Article 17(1 ) and the consultations pursuant to
Article 19(4)(b) as well as the absence of criteria on which to base
any reduction in the transfers pursuant to Article 18(4) • However, the Commission does not consider it advisable to make Stabex more automatic.
Coal is an obvious case in point.
It should be remembered that making the transfers as automatic as possible is not an end in itself but thatt in conjunction with other objectives^, the aim is to ensure that similar situations are dealt with identically. But this is precisely where the problem lies since, after four years of applying the system, the Commission now realizes that every application for a transfer has individual features* Absolutely identical cases do not exist since the number of additional factors and phenomena determining the
nature and degree of a fall in export earnings is far too great.
However, the principle of identical treatment requires that dissimilar things should be treated differently. Consequently, the Commission has . come to the conclusion that it is impossible to meet the requirements of each individual case on the basis of detailed rules valid for all cases and designed to eliminate the discontinuities in the automatic process
of dealing with an application for a transfer2•
Only through consultations between the Commission and the applicant is it possible to meet the requirements of individual situations. Hence the discontinuities in the automatic system are an absolute necessity.
pE.g. transparency, speed and objectivity in the calculating process.
Consultations under Article 19(b) represent the most striking illustration but the same can also be said of cross-checking. It is well known that, for various reasons , import statistics may differ from export statistics .
 Additional points concerning Part 111.2
1. According to the figures of the Ivory Coast's price stabilization office for agricultural products, the breakdown of the fob value of one tonne of cocoa in October 1977 was as set out below (value in CFAF):
Cost of transport and storage
Warehouse value
Cost of transport from warehouse to port State taxes
Other costs
Approximately three-quarters of the fob value therefore goes to the producerasincome. AstheStatetakes15»4$ofthefobvalue,the producer and the State account for about 90% of the fob value.
2. Other things being equal, what is the significance of a Stabex transfer when a drop in export earnings threatens, or has already caused, a drop in the income of the producers and the State?
To get some idea, we must first be clear about what would happen without a transfer. The earnings of the cocoa producers would drop and so would their demand. AtthesametimethatpartoftheState'srevenueobtainedfromthe cocoa sector would drop and the effect would be a corresponding drop in total public expenditure. The cumulative effect of these two factors in
the cocoa sector would set in motion a process of contraction in the national income, which would drop below its previous level.
In order to stop the contraction process, the State may try to avoid taking the requisite step of reducing expenditure and instead attempt to maintain its total expenditure at a constant level, or even increase it to offset
the consequences of the drop in the earnings of private producers. Such expenditure in excess of the State 's resources could "be financed by printing money but this would certainly cause inflation or greater inflation.
Another possibility would be for other unaffected earners to help bear the financial burdens by means of an increase in taxes. However, the effect of this would be to reduce overall saving and hence growth prospects. Finally the State may run into debt abroad, and this is where Stabex comes in.
Thanks to the funds flowing in by means of Stabex transfers1, the State is able to maintain a constant level of budget expenditure2 proportional
to its trade with the Community, without causing further depreciation of its currency and without requiring unaffected earners to contribute towards the burden of financing, thereby avoiding other problems. Bie State would therefore retain a portion of the transfer in order to maintain the level
of expenditure which would have been financed from the revenue it would normally have raised from the cocoa sector. In addition, most of the Stabex transfer would be used to offset the drop in income in the private part of the cocoa sector. Technically this would be done by a budget transfer to the stabilization office whose duty it is to apply the producer pricing policy in such a way as to ensure that producers* earnings remain constant. If exports drop this will always mean a loss for the office.
To be more precise, the procedure is as follows. The currency transferred is added to the reserves and the equivalent in the national currency of the
receiving State is entered in the accounts as revenue in the capital balance or the transfers balance, ©te same sum is also entered in the revenue
^column of the budget.
Subject to the State concerned exporting its total production to the Community. Generally speaking, however, this does not happen, so the Stabex transfer
can never be more than a partial condensation corresponding to that
proportion of exports to all destinations which is imported into the Community.
Hence the essential point is that expenditure may be incurred, without producing a rise in prices. This is achieved by maintaining the demand for imported goods constant relative to the national income. Hie balance between monetary demand said the supply of goods thereby remains undisturbed .
3. These observations should make it clear that :
(a) it would be a mistake to believe that a transfer would have two effects, one on the external economy and the other on the internal economy. The transfer represents only one thing, a transfer of resources which can be analysed from different points of view;
(b) from the economic point of view, the main target of the transfer is
the affected sector triggering off the contraction affecting
the internal economy of the ACP State. It would therefore be appropriate to describe the effects of a Stabex transfer from the point of view of the internal economy, ftie significance of the transfer from the point of view of the external economy is simply a reflection of the compensation phenomena within the internal economy;
(c) it is therefore correct to analyse the effects of the transfer in financial aggregates expressed in national currency, the overall effects of a transfer of this type tend to be overlooked if attention iB focused on the currency aspect of the transfer.
Report adopted by the Court of Auditors of the
European Communities on 19 July 1979
3 . Ir.aimicc&Oili'; y of STATISTICAL BASIS• .
5. Distribution of transfers by country and by product 15
6. European currency used for the payments 15
£. Disputes ral«vfc:*.agto th-3 applicati.i-i of the Convention - 3. Wide interpretation of the Convention
5. Pact-3ra initiating th<) transfer
3. Distribution of tho annual instalment in the
event of insufficiency of resources TRANSFIQS AI.T> &DVA2IC3S ,
• 1 .. Uature of the tran3fer3 2. Advances
"4. Time-limits for payment 4.1 . Transfer
3# ^Distribution of transfers v;itn reference to
' the currencies req-aosted N
4« 3reaJ:dovm of transfer's by ACP State
5. Breakdown of transfers by prcduct (AC? States)
6. Breakdown of transfers "by country And by product (OCT)
7. Utilization of annual instalments and nature of the
8. Reimbursable transfers by ACP State
1. List of the A3? Statos \
... 2m List of the proaucta
Utilisation of the ar.nual instalments '
Naturo of the transfers Reconstitution in 1978
The S-irOyCan Parliament haa repeatedly requested tho Court of Auditors to examine the efficiency of -the mechanics cf the export earning stabilization svsteri (STA33X), in particular in its resolution upon the oVserveti accompanying tho discharge decisions on the i;.:ple::.sni^-;ion of the "bud-ret of the European ' Corsraiuiities for tho financial year 1975. The Court of Auditors has not , hovever , received an official request from the
I'cncthelcss, in acftor&snca v/xth Article 16 of the Treaty amending certain financial provisions of tiia Treaties establishing the
European Cornruunitics and of tho Treaty establishing a single Council and a single Coinnzi^sion of the . Suropaaa Corrrxnities , the Co-art of Auditors nay, at any tine, cubv.it it3 observations on a specific question. The Court of Auditors has accordingly exorcised the right to prepare this spocial report of its own initiative.
The Court waited until the clcse of the third year of application
to complete its report on S?AS3Xt so a3 to be able to include the
most recent data exid extend the scope of its observations to a *"
third financial year. Thus the cotr.mants on the operation of STAlSilX relate primarily to the first three year3 of application, i.e. l?75t 1976 r.nd 1977 • The conclusions aro . ihcjroiore of necessity provisional , since they are to-ised on . findings relating . to three out of a total of five financial years provided for in
the Lone Convention. 1 '
Mm y^^ ^^#-•w «^ ^»4*# «v>«^ ««*•%••v»* V*f^ b*%^VvV Vv fc/^ 4 X^ C«^*Xi^ fc-llov?: "r'ith the ai~. of remedying the harmful effects of the instabiiit" of export earnings eid of thereby en^v ing the ACP States to achiava the stability, profitability and sustained.
^TOT.-th of their economies, the Coittaunity shall implement a system for su?*ranresin?; th-s sta'-iliZFition of es.rrir.gs frj:i exports by the AG? States io tho Coz*r.".n:.ty of certain products (res list in A.'v.-.2:c II) on vhr'.ch thoir ooo:ionics ar3 dependent end i.hich are affectsd by fluotiu-tio".-3 in prico and/or quantity". (Art. lo).
1',\2 Ccritunity ha:; in this WAV unilateral.iy corrjaitte-i itself to provide
CJ~;?«x?c'.iioa for t\vs fluctuations in revenue ari-'in^ froo tha export of certain products, for tho r.ost part agricultural•
U'ilika. t.t* international anroorisnts on ra*.i r.ateri:.?-S, for exanple the International Coffsa A«r<;c:r.3nt, STAJ2J;A covers 36 products, ■ including iron oro, and doss not make provision for any stabilization of prices nor any intervention in the market neonanisms.
The ait; of STAE3X is ultimately the stabilisation of the State's
export revenue, ar.d not of the producer's prices. STA3EX intervenes
after tho close of all the commercial operations of the year of application to compensate any loss of revenue . in foreign currency by means of financial transfers to the requesting ACP State.
JInder those circumstances the compensation of loss©3 incurred is effected betweou tho Coircnunity and th3 ACP State concerned. The decision to
pass on tho financial compensation to the national producers who have suffered losses in revenue lies entirely with tho government of each beneficiary State, which remains free to allocate the transfers received where it sees fit.
Every ACP State that fulfils the conditions laid down in the Convention will, upon request, receive a financial transfer for each individual STAE2X product, independently of the state of its balance of payments, or of its total export revenue, or even of its export revenue from other STAB3Xproducts. Anexhaustivelistofconditionsoftransferisgivon
 to riV'i xr.s right to a transfer, althaugh they are open "to differing in.erprst.^tions•
i . threrhold
The svG\e:3 applies "to the export earnings of each AC? State or OCT iron the produces covered if, during the year preceding the year of application,
c^rninjtj from the export of the product or products to all destinations rspreser.tcd at least 7»5/£ (for sical 5?>) of its total earnings from uerchaiidics experts (for,the least developed, landlocked or island
covvviric'J, the percentage i3 2»57j)« ' . vft^ '
To co.-no -within the cystem, the export earning of each product considered individually m.i3t exceed the dependence threshold.
An AC? or OCT State i3 entitled to request a financial transfer if, on tno basis of the results of a calendar year, its actual earnings which arise from the export to the Community of each of the products considered
individually, are at least 7•5^ lover than the c~irrsnpcrjiing average receipts for tho previous four years. For the least developed, landlocked "or islpaid ACP Statea or OCT this perccntn.-o ia 2.5,4.
For curtain special cases, the system applies to the exports to a.ll destinations of the product in question.
3• Inad.r-icsi'bility of requests for transfer
Requests for transfers are not admissible if the fall in earnings frosa exports to the Cortnunity is the result of a trade policy measure of the ACP State concerned, adversely affecting exports to the Community in particular. .
AC? State to drcer.uine whether such cnanges ia the trend of total exports in the requestinj Awl*' St^te are likely to havo an effeSt on the amount of the transfer, and if so, to what extent.
Thus, for example, the Congo (7-3 ISUA) and the Ivory Coast (15*0 K3UA) received a tramfar in 1975 although the limitations in Article 19» . paragraph4,couldhr.voboonapplied. TheCongopreventedexports typrivatov.nderfcakin^s"byestablishingatrade.monopoly. TheIvory Coast raised the quota of products which had to bo diverted to local industry. Inbothcasesthefinaleffectontheexportstatistics
of the prcdust covered, i.e. rood, ve3 na^ativo.
The fall in export earnin.73 from the products covered by STAE3X must bring thori to at least 7.5/' bo.lcw the reference level. In theory then,
the system introduced vrald result in the refusal of requests based on afallinexportsof!•'%» Inpractice,hovever,theCommission,in certain cases where the fall ;."i3 less, te.upared the excessive rigidity of this provision in its application of the Convention.
TIjo sa.r.0 ACP State may receive a financial transfer for' a STABIDX product which slightly exceeds the t?:re~v.o1.d, whereas for another STAZ3X product which greatly exceeds thi3 so.-.io threshold the transfar
is refused because the reduction in export earnings is only a small percentage balou the rcfor^r^--; 1^vol. Ir. this latter case the absolute amount of the fall rar.y r?ach a multiple of the fall in the export earnings uhich initiated the financial transfer in the first case.
In consequence, the most substantial loos of earnings by the ACP States 11.
' doe3 not entitle tnea -to compensation by a financial transfer.- ! '-■
The result 13 that the moot• vulnerable economies of tho ACP States, i.o. the less diversified, are those least protected by the STABEX system.
 I:.' sn AOP SUvle cor.srcif.rs that it fulfils the cTi<?..itict*s for "benefitins •/
froiT a S.'AjJX tr:.r_sfor, it forwards its request, together with supporting docuit-jiu•>f 10 'ih3 Co.iuission, v'aioh then proceeds to er.&*2ino the request.
T.:3 t:tatrustics u-cd fcr irvueTO-.viatior. of tho syater: we th^se obtained by - ore£8-checking tho siMiatics cf the AC? States s.id of tr,3 Cerjaunity, account toing taken of the .fob values .
In thfi cstso of the AGP Staten vhone exporto of ST.uiZX product-? to all 'destinations are taken into account., the fibres from the beneficiary
AC? State are tisei sa tho 'oasis for the transfer * , r
In order to ensure Ahat .tho STABIJX system function?; efficiently and' ! rapidly, statistical and cjntcns co-operation has been irstituted "bstwfijn tha CcD.rur.ity ar.d tho AC? State3.
Accoro.ir.^- to the Corr.r.imion, unsolved practical or administrative problems in tho ACP States so.-netiines ha^.c^r the compilation of reliable statistical data.
If the requesting AC? State docs not agree to uso the Corrjvanity stati3tica as a basis for the transfer, cross-checking raist be carried out and, according to the Corrnisnion , where significant disparities exist , this can assume tne character of negotiations.
The Cor.^ianion has not established any general guide-linea for the
cross-checking operations . During these operations it ha3 recourse ,
if the need arises, to "all tho information available at that moment". »
The discrepancies between the statistics adopted for tho STAB3X transfers and those arising from other sources are considerable.
* data sent to the Commission
, + data scut to Statistical Office
-4,:» differ rreaxly according to vhetner they were arawn up by the £"cn.tistic il , custocs or barJ;in£ departments .
BannAi, the Central Bank and tho Ministry of Planning publish • export statistics . ' The data conpilei by the Bank are forwarded to
■sr.3 CoraraioOic.:; to serve as a basi 3 for calculating STA5.rX transfers .
There can likewise be considerable discrepancies between the export statistics of the AC? States and the Comniunity inroort statistics (ace Annual Report of the Court of Auditors for 1977)•
Comparison of' tho statistics applied by 'tho Conmission with tho statistical data produced by the ACP States in support of their
requests reveals no less considerable disparities . Thus , for e::a;nple , for the year of application 1975» Togo would havo teen entitled to a transfer of + 1 300 000 EUA according to the statistics that it supplied in support of its request, whereas the "statistics applied" resulted in a transfer of 2 680 324 EUA. ,
 SUA, whereas accordir.£ to tho statistics of -that country, the transfer should have amounted to £ 1 £00 000 'SUA. '
Recently the crcss-checki::,? and accompanying negotiation procedure have bs'jn disputed. In June 1979». Ujanda refused to agree to a transfer of
1.3 K2UA because 'ih© calculation of the transfer was bassd upon the import
. figures cf the E3C. TKs U,tan;isx» aro -ackirg for 2.3 I3UA, a sua based on.'
their own export figures .
2. 2?is">iv;«?s r?7.aVir.r?.to tha n.?-)l"icr,ticn of th3 Convention
Following ths pcttlcncrit by tho ACP-fi]C Council of Ministers in application
of Article 81 of the Convsiiticvi, of tha dispute concerning the application
of tho Convention to raquoGta for transfer presented out of tine in 1977
for tho yoar 1975 by, inter alia, M?.li, the Commission proceeded to examine this application . Sacausa of a statistical adjustment , this entailed a re-exam in.vtion of the transfer already paid in 1975* According to the Comnission th-3 eoc=r.:ination revealed that the request was well founded, and it resulted in
an -additional transfer of 496 501 SUA, paid in 1979» v
In 197o Ilali submitted a request for a STAEZX transfer in respect of gun» ■ arable . Upon first CJ:?-;in:.tion , the request was refused , since the
de-pendcncs threshold of 2.5$ bad not been passed.' Following successive revisions of the export: statistics, the Kalian governxsnt submitted a
further application emphasising that the dependence threshold had been reached . After checks had been carried out* by ths Commission ci3partnientc , the cross-checking of Jlalian and Community statistics resulted in the calculation of a transfer of 843 489 EUA which was paid out in-the second
half of 1973. " # ,
Even if the wide interpretation of certain provisions such a-i the time- linit for the submission of applications for transfer or the dependence threshold is exceptional, it does enaurO a successful outcome to the beneficiaries' applications, r N »
Tho question also arises, what stabilizing effect the transfer paid in 1979
can have hsd on export revenue in 1975, the year of application of the transfer This question applies in general to all the transfers paid with a delay
of several years•
l.-i at le^st two the Ccr^iicsion, in accorc^-nca with the declaration of th3 ACP-E3C Co\u»cil of Ministers at ?iji, ajreod to take into consideration y::pcrtu from the ye?,rs prior to ti-.o reference period laid o.cvm cy the Convention, (4 years preceding the year of application).
rivvsvir, the lc~\:.l rrvvice cf cr.1) of the Ccraurity Instit.'Aticrs questioned -his nod1) cf conduct in 'an opi.:ion sivsn in 1977 ar.d cor.fir.Tcd, in 1973.
Tho Court corridors th.vt the procedure of statistic?.! cross-checking and the Vieur-ioofthefirrncu-J. resource'stransferredraisestheproblemofoeser-
of the objccis of 3'.'Alt.'*, ar.d c.lso of vho is to "bo the final fc'-'-ioficiary.
Cr. the cne h;ind, the p^ovir.iens cf the Convention provido for the calculation cf a trare;for basic c.~-:cr-iius. tc' strict ar.;h;r.atical ral^s. Cn tha other* • band, thi practice of establishing "statistics applied" "by the croas--c;hecki4.,y; procedur? often aesv^vis, as mentioned a'covo, tha character of negotiations.
In certain cases, tha negotiation aspect allovs the Commission in it3 capacity as adminisfcra-or considerable scope in arriving at the "statistics
applied"afterthestatisticalcro^ti-cheeking. Thequestion,then,is whether th$ automatic character of the ontitle.-.ent to transfer and of the
calculation of the sv:n to be transferred ar-3 not compromised, in certain cases ' at least, by the negotiation aspect of the statistical cross-checlcing.
Stricter rulc3 for- establishing the "statistics applied" could have a
parallel effect upon the irjpler.sntation of STA5EX.
tihiie welcoming the Corcmission's intention of draving up cross-checking
reports for all cases in which, for the implementation years 1973 ard 1979i ther ?re grounds for so doing, the Court feels impelled to mention that this Willingness seems to be the first practical outcome of a Council recommendation, dated 30 October 1978» at the time of giving discharge in respect of the operations of the fourth.EDP for the financial year 1976.
- •– ..• 0'-- ' - --;- - 0 vrhlc/. c"Jrlr.i:.:; the c/.oico of qu?xtities
ani vi-.iv.c-; c.^opte:-, for crors-chociiin- and not nor^ly by referring to ovc-roll negotiations .
It vas rrentienei abrva (ciY II.2. pa^e 2) that for certain AC? State3
t -2 expvrts cf 3i;_Ii-vA t.redacts to all destinations are trJron into account. Ir. this eve:-':, th? STAToX tx-ansfera are calculated on the basis of the
statistical data previe<«i "by the recipient states.
I;? fchs cxtcr.sioa of the S7AL"2X guarantee to export cr-.^ir.vo outside the Ccrivrit/ re:Vaces th-3 8ijnificsr.ee c; fluctuations in tn-ds, 3*aoh as
the increase of expo.'.'ta to third 'countries , it increases thn ; of otfcur factors such as clandestine ereports , jvaiiaticns in hou.3 con3vnption , or local reflations which result in a' restriction oC exports .
If these factors are ta'-en into consideration, then it i3 clear that extfission cf the SftUi'CX c;uarantee to export carcings outside tfco' Cocununity orjva vii: arv' T.^-ntiiy ccr.trol by the Co::r;v-'iity institutions , Bince there i3
no possibility- of establishing any proper statistical basis, usir.g tne Cor^unity'- statistics in one fora or another.
5. Factura xn;.tlatin.? th-"» trar'sfer
In its thizti roport, on the operc.tien during 1977 of the system s6t up
by tho Lome Convention for Suabilities export earnings , the Commission stated :
"Over the years experience of applying this system increasingly confirms
the view that the guarantee comes into play mainly as a result of a drop
in the oumtitie? exported; falling r>rico«j are not, contrary to what mifdit v
for the products covered".
be 'supposed , a determining factor in the decline in export earnings noted
drop in quantities "because of the decreased
in the rough (47;; of funds
.average unit values for tho saxe reference period 1971-74; exactly the
■02:10 anplioj in the case of iron ore. ^ I♦
1act, more than half of the transfers wade during the fir:st tnreo
ye?,r3 of application were primarily, tho result' of a fall in the quantity ci e.voorts . -
,The recent tendency of £TAx3X products to rise in price does to some extent guarantee tho ACP State3 through the STAHiX transfers seme compensation in eo far as purchasing power is concerned, althou^i it is rot an autonatic adjustment against ths real loss of the value of the exports. , . ■
Sscept for iron ore, the products covered "by STAICX &ro solely cultural products expo rt cd by the ACP Staters . The export earnings of a. nun'oer of
ACP States derive r.ainly from a product which falls v.nd.er the caicsory of mineral resources other than iron ore, and is thus not cover:-.d by STASHX. E.-:port earnings arising from the exploitation of mineral resources constituto a considerable proportion of the total exports of the ACP States. Losses on the3e products are not taken into account in the ocheae of tho 1975 Convention ." * •' ^
averse for ths - thvao years of application , but for 1977 * Furthermore , analysis of the
30;o for 197o and
statistics reveals the decisive role of the erportci even in the case of trar.~fe.r3 paid eocn-rjjic situation : for example, with wood tr : referred for 1975 ) » there v:aa a slunp in
quantities exported conparcd vitfc the reference period , vhor&?.3 unit values . regained higher in 1975 thar.
Cumulative results by product "
(+)« including 2 3^7 590 EUA chargeable to the allocation for the OCTf
i.e. 555 198 EUA in 1975, 55.1 836 EUA in 1976 and 1 260 556 EUA in 1977
(*) .excluding 2 367 590 EUA transferred to Djibouti and to the Comoros which have bocomo ACP States.
Ihcs fio'jr.l allocation of 37? I-VJA for 'STASHX increased by 5 2S3VA on : the accession of the rev ACP States in 1973, i:cs initially divided into
5 CC-.IS.1 sz:r.usl iris*accents of 75 I-SUA. Except for the last, cash annual
instalner.t nay ba increased. "e%7 20'. Any balance frors each cf the firot
four- t/Jiual'/ Litrtalnenta' i» »at.v^atically carried • "forward to the following •v *•
Pctwrc the e;cv>iry of the Convention, the ACP-SSG Council of I'inistora i3 P._
to dccid% how any- balance rfciainiflg is to" "o* allocated, -and under what conditions ar-J to cc allocated the suns still to bo reimbursed by the . i.C? Staters to whoa the ST.'V.jc'X transfer waa accorded in the form of a non-intor23t~cearing loan. , i •
The global STATvSX allocation oaounts to 20 LIEUA divided into 5 annual installs-rvts of 4 'K3UA
* excluding refunds of 2 332 097 EUA
31.0 699 645 17.5 * excluding refunds of 61 133 EUA
Earing tlu period. 1970-1976 the export earnir.-3 of the ACP States from; STA?ZX products varied fron ore year to the next by up to 25^. The decline in revenue reached a multiple (betv.-een 1 and 5) of the anr.unl STAbl'lC allocation .
i'or ths year of application 197o the transfers decided upon during the first half of 1979 amounted to 74 373 46? EUA for groundnut produces alone. 1 . is ou/i doe 3 not include the lo . 6 IZDUA vhicsh Senegal agreed to forego .
At 1 June 1979 "the nu-ns transferrei for the year of application 197& c:..ovjite'1 to 118 207 433 SUA, more than the annual instalment inclusive of the 20,"j increase i.e. 90 '"JUA. "his was only possible thanks to the
carry-ovoi-s - from the . previov.3 years .
Hr.ports of coffee products alone accounted for about 3C;j of the exports of STAITsX products . The spectacular rise in the price of coffee in 1977 (triple the price in Spring 1976) considerably increased the revenue earned froai the export of coffee products. In 1979 the prices returned to the Ifvel of Spring 1976.
In 19Y9» a single beneficiary received tvra transfers representing i-ore than 65V» of the annual inctalwisnt. •
The above-nuntioned exanplea illustrate, that there is a relatively
risk of a temporary shortage of fund3. The annual fluctuation*.; in the export of STAEIiJX products overall have already reached nvultip.lc.fi of the annual ?ir;talnent and nearly half of these exports in tenr.3 of value are confined to two products ar.d/or tuo ACP States.
If insufficient amounts are carried forward,, the question could arise in
the fut\:re of how to divide the instalment for a particular year of I
explication. Tho present Convention does not Jay do:;n any criteria for distribution between the ACP States requesting a transfer, when the sums to be trcnaferred exceed the allocation or the annual instalment available.
7.1-2 Ccrjsic3i.cn calculates the. a-ount to ho transferred ar.d after having *'*
ir.fcrnod tha Council draW3 up a transfer agreement which is Bigned by the
beneficiary and the Coirjnission. This sum is transferred to the "beneficiary state .
The transfers are nc.de' • in the form of a grant or a loan according to
the stage of development of the recipient country. The euns transferred do not bear interest. In the five years following each transfer the
ACP State3 who have received loans replenish a part of the resources cade available to the 37sten by the Community, The least developed ACP States listed in Article 43, paragraph 2 of the Convention are exempted from
Certain OCT benefit from
Katu.re of the transfer
(+) including 2 367 590 EUA charged to the allocation for the OCT, i.e. 555 in1975, 551836EUAin1976and1260556EUAinI977 (
(*) excluding 2 367 5S0 EUA transferred to Djibouti and .to the Comoros which have now bccoaio ACP States v .
All necessary steps are ts:ar. to 2r.s-.1ra tnat transfers are made rapidly. %
for example cy -masr.s of advances , normally six-monthly .
The transfer is pai^d into an accent specified to the Commission "by the competent authorities in the recipient AC? State. Generally, the representative of the ACP State acsrsaited to the Co:*nunities is instructed by his government to ensure that the operations are completed iri order.
The 56 non-ropayable transfers amounted to 102 2o2 478 EUA for the first three ysaf-s of application (*).
For the fir.s}. throe financial years the 11 repayable out interest-free transfers totalled 47 301 Cup 2UA.
Repayable transfers v;cre effected during the first three years for 33 457 959 SUA, 8 343 125 EUA and O'SUA respectively.
The balance available fro;?, the total allocation for the last t*;o years to v/i.ich the Convention has applied (1973 sn.i 1979) amounted to
232 535 2UA, including rcraburnenents of 2 332 097 EJUA. The balance outstanding frorc repayable transfers 44 968 9^7 EUA. A sun of
113 36} Oil EUA was transfored to the recipient AC? States after the first sorie3 of transfers for the year of application 1978.
The 13 non-repayable transfers amounted to 1 516 436 EUA, 1 889 893 EUA and 1 260 556 EUA respectively, i.e. a total of 4 666 935 EUA for the past three years of application.
The five repayable but interest-free transfers ( two in 1975 » "two in 1976 a-d one in 1977) for the three financial years amounted to
1 243 149 EUA, 1 410 462 EUA and 202 714 EUA respectively, i.e. a total of 2 856 325 EUA.
(*) exclrding the transfers totalling,2 367 590 EUA granted to the Comoros and to Djibouti which were charged to the allocations for the OCT*
y-a.v* of .-prlic-ktio". (1973 .vd 1?79) mounted to 12 537 373 EtfA, '%,
•lh« ad-niii-etrc.i;:.:,-a rrjc-jihre nao?**^ sy this Coe;r:is3icn. is such that th~ 'oor.5fic.ic.z-y c.ovr;ry reseivco- xfc>. transfor ssrr.s 6 to lo conths iiftsr the loBJi in roeordcl, for during tho fira^; three yaars of
r ranee , the Ocn.iisoion - did not rr.a'.e uss of ii3 abii ity xo grant cjdVc.n'iOîj exi trûD^i ^**3 «
In t.'iis oo^.cc::or.r it snoruc. r»3 pointer out tnat in 197?» the Cossaiesion
Civa i r&nsfei 3 • rel&t in - to ths year of application 1?73 and - one x %
transfer relax i«i; !■"> th-J year, ox application 1977 • 'iuo recipients were 'three AGP Stat 30 sni tvo OCT.
The first advances were paid to four ACP States in 1973. Thu3 Senegal," Mauritania, tl;e Canbia. end 23r-.se. racoived a total of 27 670 COO SUA'
for the year of application 19Y$» The corresponding transfers vrere
of 101 234 820 .SUA., The c-Ave.:: co.s rccoivsd vary batvecn 20^o and 65$ * of the final transfer. *
porcsnt.?.^ of tho fin;:.l transfer that my be paid as an advance.
A3 no has beja set , excessive su:-.s could be advanced to • . t -i3 l"ii:eficiary States . Tha present Convention makes no provision
for the repayment of excessive advances granted to the recipient
States nor docs it define the conditions in which a rapid adjustment eovld bo made of amounts received in e;:cess. On the ether baud, an r-':o-ant which according to tho Cor.'junr.ty statistics is in excess
may be teicen into consideration by the Corcaission during negotiations for the establishment of the final basis for transfer.
5. !••:striction of tm.r^forg bv cou.vfr;- av.d *:v (se* annexes 4, 5 ar.l 6)
In all , 28 ACP States have receive! cne or more transform . STA.BZX intervened
in the case of about tv:cr.ty products . No transfer was ^rar.ied in tho ca/i a of
For the first three year3 of application, five ACP States (Niger, Benin, Tanzania, Ivory Coast and Ethiopia) shared 82 711 Oil EuA, i.e. almost
55 per cent of the srcount of tho transfers . Six ACP States have received one or more transfers during each of the first three years of application.
During thi3 nar/.a period , five products (ucvd , £TCur;dr.utr> , cotton , sisal , coffee) accounted for 75% of tho suss transferred.
Including -the first data available for the financial year 1978, the, percenters for five States ».nd five products are 60$ and $5% respootively.
6. :v:ronnrr cuyrcr.cy nn?:d for the payments (see Annex 3)
Overall for the first three financial years, 60fj of the transfers v:ero po.ia in French francs, 30^ in German uark3 and lOjj in pounds sterling-, the• o«hs>r L'l.ropenn currencies only amounting to 2.5/5. •'
T.'.o proportion of transfers in marks decreased by - fron the first to the
third financial year whereas transfers in sterling increased to a quarter of the total.
According to tho irforrstiou received or. the use of the funds .
transferred for 1?75» of the stcis transferred Tjy way of 'STAixiX were allocated by the ACP States to one or E:ore specific
projects. Ir_ thin r-e".rvi, nine ACP States intend to allot 39$ of
the transfers, totally or Sr.'part, to develop the production, rrarketir.g, orexportofSTA33Xproductaar.dancillaryservices. Inoneortwo specific eases, ths beneficiary project features on the list of projects which are financed or ca-t'insr.ccd by the 2D? within the context of technical and financial co-operation* .
As to tho use of tho ro;r.inir.- 37J« of tho transferred sums," tho replies
have been rather evos.v/o, e::p.'es3in.^ the intention to allocate resources
to a prc£.r-::T.e 'without spoolfyr.n" -;:he project, referring to the replenishing of public funds, cr failinc; to 5,-j.ve any aniwor* • -
Tho evasive replies 'given do in fact comply -with the letter of Article 20 of the Loao Convention v-hich serely states :
"The recipient ACP State shall decide ho;/ the resources will "be used. . It shall inform the Commission armially of the use to which it has put
the resources transferred1** < ■
In one case, 45'^ of "the sum of the transfer was used by the Ministry cf th2 Interior for the purchase of 70 vehicles for its departments, which include the Directorate-General for National Security and the ■ cecurity police.
l.'hilo during the first financial year one ACP State failed to provide I;
information on the use made of the funds derived fron the transfer within the prescribed time-limit of twelve months three failed to meet this obligation in tho following financial year of 1976*
the predicts which occasioned the transfers.
For tho fir;w two fir*r.cial years, the major pert of the suns transferred
vere no; allocated to the development of those products vhich occasioned the transft-rs . Korsover , those repoits are net necessarily binding on
-the "fcsr.«ficiscy country. The /.CP Struts aicr.o decides v;-on tha utilization of the ;;tr:r? tv iviriforr A and the CocjzvrJ ty hsis no u-y of chocking 'this .
]lo guid*;iin*s arc for the utilisation c-f the funds.'
After the Corsicaion1s efforts to draw up in conjunction with the ACP
St-r- r>3 c\ standi fcra fcr thc-JO reports. Lie fcrx-sl quality cf the information received improve:!• The cats supplied by the reoioiont AC? Sia+es are
row «or* coB»p2o>e, Vu: thesa standardised reports are still bs.'isd on
th ? u';iii.;oral «rc&te:::s-~t3 of the 'be.icficiarioj . Moreover, proof that
the trans fers have c:'r. allocated in : acc0ru3r.ce vith the information
provided :s r.ct fcr--;ardt.-d to the Copies ion . The 1?75 Convention doe3
not enabla the Cofr»u»ity institutions in practice to ascertain the
final use raxle cf the trustors • '
Under thsce circur.star.co3 , the p; incipal or sole air?, of SUAE3X is the partial compensation of losses in earnings froa the export of certain coir.noditics, i.e. a financial transfer to aid the "balance cf p~.ynont3, . arid information on the use made of the transfers is still purely token in nature .
Out of eleven repayable transfers totalling 47 301 084 EUA. three
transfers wero reimbursed fully or in part in the sum of 2 332 097 EUA,_
 during lS7o by Carcorocn ar.d Fiji. Cameroon repaid in full
a transfer received the previous year. Fiji has refunded the transfer received in 1975 partially repaid that of -1976.
Although only three repayments have been raade, reconstitution vfas effected in each cose or..3 year after having received the transfer.
In the case of Fiji, tha erount repaid in a single year exceeded the - aaount of each of the transfers v:hich that country has received.
Out of five repayable transfers totalling 2 856 325 SUA, only one has been re-paid in the cum of 61 133 EUA, i.e. 2.1$.
Generally, the repayment is made in the European currency requested
cn the occasion of the transfer. The transfer is expressed in EUA tut paid in one or several Community currencies. As the various European currencies are not fixed in relation to each other, the value of the EUA expressed in one of these .may vary day "by day. Thus, O.-croon
is bound to roir/fourae the equivalent cf the transfer expressed in EUA, with an amount in European currency which is higher than that received the previous year on payment of the STA33X transfer. The risk of fluctuating exchange rates i3 in this case upon the recipient ACP State
Finally , by neglecting any reference to total exports , the repayment of the transfer no less than its payment may accentuate the fluctuations in export earnings.
account for lesrj than 5t'- of t'.va total export earning? to all destinations .
This threshold was crossed by some ACP States in 1975 (Benin, ITiger, Ethiopia, ...) in 1975 (Guinea-Bissau, Western Samoa, Tonga, Niger, ...) and in 1?77 (Capo Verio, iienin, Comoros, ...).
In certain iiiclr.tei cases the CIA.U3X transfer reached considerable proportions in the sector which occasioned the transfer (1975s "iger, Congo • 1976: Guinea-Bissau, Fiji, ...; 1977: Cape 7erde, Upper Volta, ...).
This'ratter :.s discussed in the Commission's third report, on the operation ♦
durirj 1977 of the syr>te~. sec up 03* the Lo:ne Convention for stabilizing export esmiriss:
"The irpait of the transfers obviously appears far more clearly when one looks at the transfers nade for a specific product ar.d the export earnings (all destinations) corresponding to that sane product (i977)»
The following percentages illustrate thi3i
/Pan"r.:;i.?. (sisal) Swaziland (i.ron ore)
Thosedatarevealthatextentofthocompensatoryflous providedbythe systea for the sectors in question and consequently of the guarantee in respect of the ACP States' export earnings, particularly for the least
so special cases observed during a the economies of the recipient ACP
"ouethelesa, apart from the ten or
specific year, the final impact on
States was probably slight. Sporadic transfers cannot have lasting effect, and trio amount of financial resources involved is usually too small. Among-the fev; recipient countries where the volume of aid reached a significant proportion during a financial year, some chose to allocate these funds siT.ply to sustaining the flow of imports rather than promoting economic development. ~ ■ .
Considering ti.3 difficultiss v.i icii the Conn-uuity currently has in studying the sffsct of the transfers on the eccr^io3 of the recipient AC-P States, any conclusion \/ov.l<i at prsseiti bo precipitate.
"J.VJ c-cry',ion of a Ryr.te.ii to c•:&*.>iiiz5 ti:; e::~ort caminrj.? cf the ACP for cci-tela Ircsic products vr.dcub\sdly constitutes an historic
iiui3v::i"ion i.r. the rclativ-£S between the Cc;i::.unity and a ,p?oup of developing couctriea .i.e. the '.i^Mr.trry AG? States of the Lor.-5 Convention*
he relatively briaf -experience of Sa'ATL^X has - even encouraged certain
j'ar^ Ha-torn countries to ~s : uc within ASSAll (Association of South East
Asian Ka*;ior.a) a system based on that of STAESX*
During . it s first three years of application , the sy3te:n ha3 already been extended to incorporate a larger nurfjor of products.
During this period , half of the .ACP States have received transfers on
one or more 'occasions . Tho least developed ACP States have "benefited most , receiving tha tre-nsfers in the 'foria of grant3*
The allocation of transfers operated in a generally satisfactory v/ay, despite some differences as to the application of . the terra3 of the
Convention. The effects of the transfers on the economies of the recipient ACP States are less clear.
 of tr.c recipient countries on a !r.cdivu3-ter.2 V&sis.
On the other hmd, in exceptional carses, where it has teen possible
to establish such tn effect fro-a "the "balance of p.trrisnfcs of a specific V. •
ysar, it may bo asked to vhat extent the transfer may hav^ contributed to the r3c.intcr.ar.ce of an excessively monolithic production structure, by sheltering the national authorities from the "si-nala" cowing fron
price movements cn ttis international market.
\7/.e lack of information on each country r.al:es it impossible, at present, to h?.vo or. accurato picture of the i~pact of the new system on the national economies concerned . ■
Ihe recipient States seen to have realized very quickly that tho systca is not designed to compensate for tho losses in the earning,:; of the
producers.but those of'tho.iz* economies in general. It is for thi| reason
they have redoubled their requests to 'lengthen the list of products ,
that
to reduce the dependence thresholds and reference levels, to index-link . the transfers to the actual losses etc . The effect "of all of this would bo
to change the system into a guarantee of the global export earnings rather than a g-uarantce of revenue for certain specific products. v
, Central African E.ipire . Chad
The Ganbia Cfeana
Signatory countries of the Lome Convention
Swaziland ,
da) cation, no' cardEd or combcd db) cotxon Hnters
e) Coccr.ut orofluctn ea) coconuts ' eb) copra
cb) ex+rcccSj esssnoes or conccntratos of coffee
f) Palm, pain r.ufc ard '.zez-r.o1 products fa) oalm oil
fb) palm nut and kernel oil
fc) palm nut and kernel oilcake
fd) pain nuts and kernels
s) Pay hides , skins and leather ga) raw hides -and skins
gb) bovine cattle leather
gc) sheep and lasb skin leather gd) goat and kid skin leather
 vcod in the rou<;h '
hb) wood, roughly squared or half rqusred he) wood sv.:n lengthwise
iron ore3 and concentrates and roasted iron pyrite n) Cloves
(1) Adopted on 31 March 1979
v?oa in the
"."ooi in tho
woed ia the rou~i
2IS3AU ."rciur.dnuts I " î.uta and
626 966 * a3 a percentage of
iron ore ! _J
in the îi 5 176 403 Vi H '
* oa a percentage of tho armual total 0•,
1.. .. 03 a norcenta^e'of'thc annual
including 496 501 EUA decided and "Jiid in 1979
allocation for tho OCT (Art. 1, para.' 5 or Internal Affrceaont no. 7b/16'j/ECG of 11 July 1975)
Jjffee _:;on or?
J including 2 367 5S0 EUA. charged to tha allocation for tho OCT, i.e. 555 195 I in 1975, 55^- Ei-fA in 1976 and 1 260 556 EUA in 1^77 I
as a. pe-ccnts.ro of the annual total
U) docided upon and nr.id in 1979
{?.) imludir.^ A.yG 501 EUA dooided upon , prvl rviid in 107^
+ continues to benefit under STATSX from the allocation for ths OCT Article 1 , para. 5 of .
Internal AT'Jorr.cnt '<*o- 7!)/f>5/k:30 of 11 Jul;, _C- r or Ih'i r.nounl +
Grants Loans
x including 2 367 590' EUA chargeable to the allocation for the OCT, i.e. 555 193 EUA in 1975. 551 836 EUA in 1976 and 1 260 556 EUA in 1977.
+ continue to "benefit under STAEEX from the allocation for the OCT. (Art. 1, para. 5i of Internal . Ajrcemsnt No. '5/65/ESC of 11 July 1957 '
* as a percentage of the annual total
IilnVtiernalArrc-cxcntI«o»75/65/^Gof11July1957 ,• £3 a porcenzcg? of tho annual total.
351 036 SUA in 1976 and 1 260 556 EUA in 1977
continue to bonafit under STA&V.X from the allocation for the OCT (Art. 1, para. 5, oi
+ Iho transfers received aro repayable
* Transfer decided upon and paid in 1979
N.B. Triu transfers granted to the OCT who had become ACP States since entry into force of the Convention were charged to the
. OCT allocation. The above table doe3 not cover these amounts t/hich are included in the table relating to the ACP States.
The balances ch^r^ed were: 555 198 in 1975» 551 836 EUA in 1976 and 1 260 556 EUA in 1977, i.e. 2 367 590 EUA in all. The recipients were Djibouti .and Comoros.
*' cxsiuiins rsfu.ncs of 2 33^ 097 IflJA
* ejccludin-j refurid.3 of 61 133 EUA
in thv i __J
| v-od in tiiä 5 176 '.408 I |
rougn iron ore ooir
- Comore (ylang-ylang)
– CiàlRtâ rlsj.w"'j| • A!to VoM3 I
It porto
