In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
d' offres .
sind in
Articles 85 to 91 of the draft regulation deal with the application of the EUA to income and expenditure. Article 85
states that the provisions shall apply "until the putting into operation of the Council regulation concerning the application
of the EUA to transactions effected by the Institutions of the • European Communities ."
This latter regulation, held in abeyance by the Council since 1977, is based on the concept that the EUA constitutes not
only an accounting unit but one to be .used for expressing the financial rights and obligations of the Community and a financial means of dealing with these rights and obligations. It seems unlikely , however, that the introduction of the EUA as a financial unit in this broad sense will be able to be realised in the near future. The role bf the EUA will thus be limited, in the medium
term at least, to its use as an accounting unit while the carrying out of Community rights and obligations will continue to be effected for the greater part, in national currency.
The provisions envisaged in the text in question, as regards the application of the EUA, confirm the practice which
has been applied since 1.1.78 and is based on a note in the written procedure of the Council da7ted 21.12.77 : this procedure consists
of keeping the accounts in EUAs the conversion rates of which change monthly, with entries for commitments and payments being made at the rate applicable in the month in which the bookkeeping entries are effected and modified by individual and periodic revaluations of the entries.
Without wishing to adopt a position as regards the
political advisability of providing for a unit of fluctuating value to be used for the accounting processes of the Institutions, the
Financial Controller would wish to draw the attention of the Commission
 to the disadvantages inherent in using such a unit when the rights and
obligations are not themselves expressed in EUA.
a) The essential requirement of the accounting system and of the revenue, and expenditure account and balance sheet which are based on the accounting entries, is to give a true and fair view of the financial operations carried out throughout .the financial year.
If, as is the case for the greater part of these operations, different units (i.e. national currency and EUA) are used for the execution
and the recording of the transactions ( 1 ) this requirement cannot
be met unless the relationship between the two different units can
' be easily established .
This cannot be done with the current system of recording accounting entries, a system which articles 85 et seq.of the draft regulation seeks to perpetuate. The reasons for this are as follow^.
b) The principle of using a monthly rate which is applicable at the time of recording, the entry means that the value of the amount so recorded
■ cannot be- known unless it is also known when the entry was made and neither the revenue and expenditure account nor balance sheet is able to provide this information. <
If financial operations are carried out over a number of months (which is often the case especially since commitments of expenditure must precede payments) the accounting entries relating to each operation
are recorded at rates fluctuating from month to mpnth, and a revaluation is made at the final rate used of any balance not yet paid.
Additionally, periodic revaluations are effected to update these balances by reference to the current rate. None of these revaluations
is, however,' definitive until the operation is finally completed.
The use of fluctuating rates means that exchange differences arise which have to be recorded as gains or losses against the budget. However,
such differences do not correspond to apy real change in the value of financial transactions since that value in terms of national ,
money, which the Commission is obliged to use the effect the transaction , remains constant .
(1) It is especially the case for the financing of the common agricultural
policy where both the requests for payment made by .the Member States and the payments effected by the Commission are in natipnal currency.
e) The fluctuating rate system has Little in its favour if the unit of account is used exclusively a means of recording financial transactions and does not feature in the actual operation of
the transactions . It is the case that ; at present , all of the assets, the commitments and the amounts to be paid are in national currency and the accounting entries can only be reconciled with them by a complete analysis of all the stages
of the transactions : such a procedure is not practicable.
In the interests of the transparency of the Commission's accounts and of the revenue and expenditure account and balance sheet, the Financial Controller is in favour of using a unit
of much greater stability such as could be provided by having
a single rate of conversion throughout the financial year
( annual invariable rate system ) : such a rate would be modified
only if the market values of currencies fluctuated beyond a certain level .
 M5KSRANDUM TO THE MEMBERS , OF THE COMMISSION (from Mr Tugendhat)
1 . On 30 June 1975 » "the Commission adopted a Regulation laying down detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of the Financial Regulation of 25 April 19731 pursuant to Article 118 of that Financial Regulation^. ,
A new Financial Regulation was adopted on 21 December - 1977^. Like
its predecessor, it provides that – in consultation with the European Parliament and the Council and after the other Institutions have
delivered their opinions - the Commission is to adopt detailed rules
for implementing it (Article 106). As a temporary measure, however,
the 1975 Implementing Rules have continued to be applied mutatis mutandis even after the 1977 Financial Regulation was adopted. As the Court
of Auditors mentioned in its Annual Report relating to the financial
year 1978^ this is not a very satisfactory legal situation.
2. In the normal course of events, the 1975 Implementing Rules should have been updated after the new Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 came into force , in order to align the two texts . This updating operation was postponed , however , mainly because , it seemed wise to
await a- number of important decisions liable to affect the form and the substance of the Implementing Rules in question, in particular the adoption of a proposal for a Regulation on the procedure for applying
■the European Unit of Account to the legal acts adopted by^ the Institutions
Commission Regulation of 30 June 1975» 0J L 170 of 1 July 1975* ^Financial Regulation of 25 April 1973, 0J L 116 of 1 May 1973. ^Financial Regulation of 21 December 19T7» 0J L 356 of 31 December 197'7• ^0J C 326 of 31 December 1979* Section 1.22.
 of the European Communities of 6 October 1976
the proposals to
amend, the Financial Regulation presented by the Commission*on - g 15 June 1978 (new provisions concerning borrowing/lending operations)
and on 23 April 1979 (a reduction in the additional period for the ' EAGGF Guarantee Section)^.
Ir> view of the difficulties which have, alas, cropped up to prevent these' texts being adopted (of the three texts mentioned none has, as yet, come into force, and the third one has been withdrawn by the Commission), it does not seem worthwhile delaying the revision- of the Implementing Rules any longer. That is why the Draft Regulation attached - which has been prepared by the Directorate-General
for Budgets - is now being submitted to i;he Commission.' It should be pointed out that all that is involved is a little updating. The intention is to bring the Implementing Rules into line with the new Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977» and not to anticipate the major changes which would have to be envisaged if one or more of the abovementioned texts is adopted, and in particular following the three-yearly revision of. the Financial Regulation - for which provision is made in Article 107 - scheduled for the end of this year.
3. As far as procedural matters are concerned, if the Commission agrees to the Draft Regulation attached, it will be necessary to forward it, pursuant to Article 106 of the Financial Regulation, to the European Parliament and Council (for consultation purposes) and to the Court- of Justice, the Court of Auditors and the Economic and Social Committee (for their opinions).
4» This revision of the Implementing Rules has two main aims:
0J C 271 of 17 November 1976. 20JC160of6July1978. '
^0J C 116 of 9 May 1979 (now withdrawn).
(a) To bring the Implementing: Rules into line with the 1977 Financial Reflation by incorporating the new rules for which it provides
A number of Articles in. the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 stipulate that their implementing conditions are to be determined by the Implementing Rules, while the 1973 Financial Regulation did not contain any provision of this kind. This means that new provisions
for implementing the Financial Regulation must be incorporated into
the Implementing Rules. The articles affected are Article 15a (forwardproposalsconcerningrecurringrevenue)''fArticle19a. (recovery of revenue) , Article 40a to Article 40c (advances to cover disbursements to be effected by an official or other member of staff on behalf of his Institution)^ and Article 85 to Article 91 (conditions under which the
European Unit of Account is to be applied to revenue and expenditure)4.
These new provisions to be incorporated into the Implementing Rules all reflect a desire to supplement as clearly as possible those Articles in the Financial Regulation to which they relate. They in no way alter the overall scheme of the Implementing Rules in their present form.
A number of technical changes are proposed in the light of the experience gained since the 1975 Implementing Rules came into force,.in particular concerning accounting. '
Article 24(4) of the Financial Regulation.
^Third paragraph of Article 42 of the Financial Regulation. ^Article .108(7) of the Financial Regulation.
Article 23(1) of the Financial Regulation.
The changes relate to Articles 15, 16 and 19 (to bring the terminology
and. provisions in question into line with practical accounting requirements in this area) , Article 76 (to supplement 'paragraph 7 of this Artiole relating to the accounts for appropriations carried over or outstanding
in the chart of accounts in order to take account of the special
^arrangements for carryovers introduced by Article 6 of the -
Financial Regulation as regards differentiated appropriations, and Article 78 (paragraph 3 of the Article allows the appointment of Category C officials as Assistant Accounting Officers only subject to certain conditions, whereas paragraph 4 does not make this distinction concerning Imprest Administrators: to overcome difficulties which have emerged in practice, it is proposed that the provisions concerning Assistant Accounting Officers be aligned on those concerning Imprest Administrators). <
A second set of amendments concerns the various amounts expressed in EUA contained in the Implementing Rules. The Articles concerned are Article45(paymentsbycheque),Article72. (inventoryofmovable property), Article 73 (sales of movable property) and Article 82
(specialallowance). Theamountsinquestionshouldbedoubledin order to bring them up to date , in the light of changes that have
occurred^. Consequently,theindexforreferencereferredtoin Article 92, which dates back to 1971» should be updated to that for the end of 1980.
5. Apartfromtheseadjustmentsrelatingtothesubstanceofthe Implementing Rules, this proposal' also seeks to bring them up to date asregardsterminologyanddrafting. Forexample,anumberofnewterms introduced in the 1977 Financial Regulation should be incorporated (Court of Auditors instead of Audit Board, Payment Order instead of Payment Voucher, Accounts Department instead of Central Accounts
Department)• Articles 2, 3, 13, 18, 27,' 28, 37» 38, 39, 48, 77» 93 and 94 are affected.
Consumer price index in May 1980 = 192.58 (1971 = 100)
Lastly, it is proposed that the title, certain recitals and. the final provisions of the Implementing Rules be adjusted to bring them into line with the situation created by the adoption of the present Financial Regulation .
6. Accordingly, the Members of the Commission are asked to decide as follows :
1. To approve the attached Draft Commission Regulation laying down detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of the Financial Regulation:
2. To forward the draft forthwith to the European Parliament and Council , for consultation purposes , and to the Court . of Justice , the Court of Auditors and the Economic and Social Committee, for their opinions, in accordance with Article 106 of the Financial Regulation.
laying down detailed rules
for the implementation
of certain provisions
of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977
 ■Draft Commission Regulation of
laying down detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community j •
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community ;
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community j
Having regard to the Financial Reflation of 21 December 1977 applicable to the General Budget of the European Communities' . and m particular Article 106 thereof ; –
Having consulted the European Parliament and the Council ;
Hf:V:tnf■fegard the Opinions of the Court of Justice, the Court of Auditors and the Economic and Social Committee; v
Whereas certain provisions of Articles 18, 19, 23, 24, 32 ^ VL ,37, 41T 42, 48, 49, *>1, 54. 56. 59, 60. 66, 70. 94 and 108 of'the* Financial Reflation of 21 December 1977 explicitly provide that " detailed rules shall be drawn up for their implementation;.
0f to the (Wssion Re^atioa of 30 June 1975^ on measures of implementation of certain provisions of
the Financial Regulation of 25 April 1973, in order to bring these implementing rules into line with the Financial Regulation of
21 December 1977 and update certain technical and drafting features ;
Whereas the drawing-up of the rules in question does not preclude the drawing-up at a later date of other implementing rules for
which nc formal provision is made in the Financial Regulation but which might subsequently appear appropriate,
(Article 18 of the Financial Regulation) Article 1
The acts by which powers are delegated pursuant to Article 18 of the , Financial Regulation shall designate those members of staff of the Institution authorized to sign for and on behalf of the delegator.
In such acts reference shall be made to the provisions of the rules
of procedure referred to in the third paragraph of Article 18 setting out the conditions governing the delegation of powers.
Thesaidacts,accompanied, byaspecimensignatureoftheofficial to whom powers have been delegated, shall be communicated:
– to the delegatee:
– to the Commissions Accounting Officer, who may not make any payment which has been authorized by officials not empowered to do so; v
– to the Financial Controller, who shall be responsible inter alia for Verifying the legality and regularity of revenue and expenditure;
- to the Authorizing Officers,- only in the case of delegation of powers by the Financial Controller or by the Accounting Officer , or of delegation of powers by Authorizing Officers who have been subdelegated powers, within the limits of the powers given to them;
- to the Court of Auditors.
The acts terminating such delegations of powers shall also be communicated as provided for above.
In every case the act of delegation shall specify the limits within which the delegatees are authorized to draw up revenue vouchers, proposals for the commitment of expenditure and payment orders, the numbers of the Articles and Items in respect of which powers have been delegated and, where appropriate , the length of time for which powers have been delegated
Acting m accordance with the provisions of the Financial Regulation and of this Regulation, each Institution shall adopt such measures for administering appropriations as it deems necessary for the proper implementation of its section of the Budget.
(Article 19 of the Financial Regulation)
Each Institution shall appoint, in a reasoned Decision, a Financial Controller who shall be responsible for the control of the commitment and authorization of all expenditure and t&a control of all revenue
under the Budget of the Communities in respect' of which the Institution -is the authorizing body.
The Institution may appoint one or more Assistant Financial Controllers. The latter shall report to the Financial Controller, who shall decide on the powers to be delegated to them. They shall bear the responsibility for the endorsements given by them in pursuance of the powers delegated to them.
The Finanoial Controller arid the Assistant Finanoial Controllers shall be chosen by the Institution from nationals of the Member States on the grounds of their particular qualifications.
The Institution shall place at the disposal of the Financial Controller the services necessary for the proper discharge of his control duties.
All decisions relating to the delegation and subdelegation of powers by the Financial Controller or the Assistant Financial Controllers shall comply with the provisions of Articles 1 to 3 above.
In carrying out his control duties, the Financial Controller shall be completely independent and shall be responsible only to the Institution. He may not receive any instructions as regards the performance of the duties assigned to him pursuant to the provisions of the Financial Regulation by virtue of his appointment.
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph shall also apply to the . Assistant Financial Controllers, within the limits of the powers delegated to them by their immediate superior, the Financial Controller.
The Financial Controller may present reports to the Institution, at any time and on any subject having financial implications, especially as regards sound financial management.
The Financial Controller and the Assistant Financial Controllers shall have access to all supporting documents and to all other documents
relating to the expenditure and revenue to be checked. They may carry out on-the-spot checks.
The liability of the Financial Controller and of the Assistant Financial Controllers to disciplinary action and, where appropriate, to payment of compensation, within the meaning of Article 6£ of the Financial.
Regulation, can be invoked only by the Institution itself, in the following circumstances :
The Institution shall take a reasoned decision to conduct an inquiry. This decision shall be communicated to the person concerned and, if he isanAssistantFinancialController,totheFinancialController. ,
The Institution may, on its direct responsibility, instruct one or more officials . of a grade not lower than that of the member of staff concerned and not carrying out theduties of Financial Controller, Authorizing Officer or Accounting Officer, to conduct the inquiry.. During the inquiry the person concerned and, if he is an Assistant Financial Controller, the Financial Controller, must be given a hearing.
The report on. the inquiry shall be communicated to the person concerned and, if he is an Assistant Financial Controller, to the Financial Controller. The person concerned shall then be given a hearing by the Institution with regard to that report.
On the basis of the report and of the hearing, the Institution shall
take a reasoned decision to give the person concerned a discharge in respect of the matter examined or a reasoned decision under Articles 22 . and 86 to 89 of the Staff Regulations. Decisions entailing disciplinary action and/or financial penalties shall be communicated to the person concerned and, for information purposes, to the other Institutions, the Court of Auditors and, if the person concerned is an Assistant Financial Controller> to the Financial Controller.
The person concerned may lodge an appeal with the Court of Justice , in
accordance with the provisions of the Staff Regulations , in respect of . such decisions'. " ■ > <
Without prejudice to the appeal procedures provided for in the Staff Regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants, the Financial Controller and the Assistant Financial Controllers may lodge 1 an appeal with the Court of Justice with regard to any act relating to • their control duties. Such appeals must be lodged within three months from the date of notification of the act in question. 1
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph shall also apply to appeals by the Institution against its Financial Controller or its Assistant Financial Controllers.-
Appeals shall be investigated and heard as provided for in Article 91(5) of the Staff Regulations. ,
The competent Authorizing Officer shall make out a claim establishment form and a recovery order form in respect of every claim.
These two forms shall together constitute the revenue voucher.
These forms, duly completed, shall be submitted to the Financial Controller for endorsement and shall be forwarded to the Authorizing Officer for registration before the competent Authorizing Officer communicates the recovery order to the debtor.
Where a claim will not be recovered in full in the financial year in which it is established, the following procedure shall be followed:
– the claim establishment form shall be made out in respect of the entire claim and shall contain, inhere possible, the multiannual schedule of amounts likely to be recovered;
- the recovery order forms shall be made out for each instalment to be • recovered during the financial year in which the claim is established and subsequent financial years.
Forward proposals within the meaning of Article 23(0 of the Financial Regulation shall be strictly limited to recurring revenue and shall be in the form of duly completed revenue vouchers . Individual proposals shall not therefore require to be submitted separately to the Financial Controller for endorsement.
Before the end of the financial year, the Authorizing Officer shall submit to the Financial Controller, for endorsement, amendments to the forward proposals to ensure that they correspond to the claims actually established.
A claim establishment form should also be made out where it is not possible
to ascertain the, amount or due date of the claim from the act or decision
giving rise to it.
The Authorizing Officer and the Financial Controller must be informed as soon as possible of each payment received. If in respect of any payment there is no revenue voucher drawn up pursuant to Article 15 » the Authorizing Officer shall draw up such an order forthwith.
Registration of the revenue vouchers in the accounts shall be carried
out by the accounts department of the Institution in such manner as
to ensure a proper oversight of all sums due to the Institution, with
a view in particular to enabling the following to be readily ascertained:
- the measures which have been taken which are liable to give rise to a claim ;
- the amounts of the sums due ;
– the due dates for payment of the sums due;
- the siims which have been recovered ; x
- the sums which have fallen due but have not been paid.
The accounts must be organized in such a way that the Financial Controller is able to check, at any given moment, that the registration of the revenue vouchers is correct , thus enabling hisa to establish those matters required of him by Article 24(3) of the Financial Regulation.
All •proposals to waive the right to recover an established claim shall specify in particular the type of revenue , its estimated amount , the budget item in Question, the grounds for the waiver and the name of the debtor.
Tf the superior1 authority of the Institution overrules the Financial Controllers refusal to give his endorsement, the decision shall be forwarded to the Authorizing Officer who shall return the waiver proposal , . together with the decision , to the Financial Controller. The waiver proposal , together with the decision to overrule shall be registered
in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 23(2) of the Financial Regulation.
(Article 32 of the Financial Regulation)
Before taking any measure which may give rise to expenditure, the competent Authorizing Officer must present the Financial Controller with a commitment proposal. Such proposals shall in principle be drawn up in accordance with a standard form to be adopted by unanimous agreement by the Authorizing Officer, the Accounting Officer and the Financial Controller, Such commitment proposals must give the information referred to in Article 33 of the Financial Regulation,
an obligation to incur expenditure shall constitute measures which, may give rise to expenditure.
If a decision of principle by the Institution must precede
the commitment of expenditure, the draft decision of principle shall first of all be submitted ' to the Financial Controller for his
endorsement. When the Institution has adopted the draft decision, appropriations corresponding to the expenditure to be incurred shall be reserved for this purpose. .
At the time of commitment of the expenditure, after the Financial Controller has given his endorsement, the appropriations reserved shall be released to cover the corresponding commitment document.
Thedraftcommitmentdocument, drawnupinaccordancewiththedecision to incur the expenditure, shall be the subject of a conmp.tment proposal which shall be submitted to the Financial Controller for prior endorsement and subsequently registered as committed appropriations and deducted from the appropriations previously reserved.
Thisexpressionistobeinterpretedasfollows: "Everymeasurewhich in itself may give rise to expenditure, without any further decision being required".
Provisional commitments within the meaning of Article 32(1 ) of the financial Regulation shall he strictly limited to recurring expenditure. Individual commitments covered "by such provisional commitments shall not jpfequire to he submitted separately to the Financial Controller for endorsement . N
In the case of provisional commitments, the Authorizing Officer shall check, on his own responsibility, that the individual commitments do not exceed the provisional commitment by which they are covered.
Such provisional commitments shall not give rise to the automatic carryings-over of appropriations as provided for in Article 6 of the Financial Regulation unless they correspond , at the end of the financial year, to financial commitments actually entered into before the deadlines laid down in the Financial Regulation.
If, in the case of certain measures which may give rise to expenditure, , , no exact figures can be given for the expenditure when the relevant commitment proposal is presented to the Financial Controller and communicated to the Accounting Officer, the Authorizing Officer must estimate the expenditure involved and set out in his commitment proposal the basis on which he has arrived at his estimate.
All commitment proposals must be submitted to the Financial. Controller sufficiently early to enable any comments which he mi$rt wish to make to be taken into consideration.
Proposals for the commitment of expenditure must be accompanied by all . relevant supporting documents and , where appropriate , by any other documents which are necessary to enable the Financial Controller to establish the matters required of him, as well as by any other information which will enable the Financial Controller to assess the transaction from the point of view of sound financial management.
 The accounts must be
have been registered
ascertain the extent
inform the Authorizing Officers of his findings.
(Article 34 of the Financial Regulation)
(Article 33 of "the Financial Regulation)
Commitment proposals shall be registered by the Institution's accounts department. Thisregistrationproceduremustmajceitpossibleto ascertain at any' given moment which budget items or headings contain reserved appropriations, the aaounts of the commitments entered into, the payments made in that connection, the payments still to be made and. the appropriations available.
organized in such a way as to guarantee that the is able to check that commitments and payments accurately, so that he can, at any given moment, to which the appropriations have been utilized and
Subject to the provisions of Article 30 below, endorsement shall be given by the placing on the commitment proposal of the signature of the , Financial Controller or of an Assistant Financial Controller. In
addition the words "Endorsed by the Financial Controller" shall be stamped on the proposal, and the date of endorsement shall be shown.
In urgent cases, endorsement may be given in a note or by telex or by any other means which leaves no doubt as to the fact that the commitment proposal in question has been endorsed.
Endorsement, shallconstituteproofthatallthepointslistedunder Article 34 (a) to (d) of the Financial Regulation have been complied with.
If, pursuant to Article of the Financial Regulation, the superior authority of the Institution overrules the Financial Controller's refusal to give his endorsement, the decision shall be forwarded to the Authorizing Officer who shall return the commitment proposal ,
, together with the decision, to the Financial Controller. The
; commitment proposal, together with the decision to overrule, shall j"be registered in accordance with the provisions of Article 33, of the
If the Financial Controller considers that the supporting documents provided for in Articles 32, 41 Financial Regulation and
further defined in -Articles 34 "to 40 below, are inadequate or incomplete, he shall postpone his endorsement and return the proposal to the Authorizing Officer, specifying the supporting evidence required.
(Articles 37 and 41 of the Financial Regulation)
In the case of supplies in general , the following shall constitute a valid supporting document:
– the invoice drawn up by the supplier, accompanied, where appropriate, by one of the/ copies of the document giving rise to the Community's obligation (e.g. order form or contract). '
In every case the document drawn up by the supplier must indicate :
– the nature and quantity of the supplies or, where appropriate, a description of the services rendered in that connection,
– the unit price and the total price,
- any exemption from charges and taxes and, where appropriate , tne amount of any charges, taxes and customs duties in respect of the supply of the goods which are included in the price.
In addition, this document must contain information supplied by the Authorizing Officer, or the official to whom he. has delegated authority, certifying that:
– the supplies have been duly received, with an indication of the date and place of receipt,
 – the supplies have been entered, in the inventory, where this is required.,
– all items in the invoice have been checked, and
– the Opinion of the. Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts , has -been given, where this is required.
The same information may be given on a receipt certificate.
In the case of services, the invoice (or bill of costs) drawn up by the supplier shall constitute a valid supporting document.
The document rnust:
– state the nature of the service, where appropriate the unit price, the total price and any exemption from charges and taxes or, in so far as this is possible , the amount of any charges and, taxes in respect of the service which are included in the price;
– bear the words "passed for payment" placed on it by the Authorizing Officer or by the official to whom he has delegated authority, certifying that the service has been rendered properly and that all the items in. the invoice (or bill of costs) have been checked.
In the case' of study and research contracts, the following shall constitute supporting documents:
(a) a copy of the contract and of any supplementary agreements, to be attached, to the first order to pay;
(b) any document which, pursuant to the financial provisions in the contract, substantiates the corresponding payments (request from the contractor, invoices, titles of the management committees in the
case of contracts of association, or any other document substantiating expenditure). The final payment must necessarily be accompanied by a document drawn up by the Authorizing Officer certifying that the service has been rendered.
In the case of staff expenditure, the following shall constitute supporting documents :
(a) in respect of the monthly salary:
- the complete list of staff, giving all the components of the remuneration This list shall be attached to the payment order;
 - a form (personal information sheet) showing any change occurring in any component of the remuneration. This form shall be drawn up on the "basis of the decisions taken in each particular case ;
- in the case of recruitments or appointments, a certified true copy of the recruitment or appointment decision shall accompany the first
salary payment; ' , -
(b) in respect of other remunerations: (staff paid on an hourly or daily basis)
- a statement drawn up by the Authorizing Officer showing the days and hours of attendance;
(c) in respect of overtime:
- a statement signed by the authorized official certifying the amount of overtime worked by the member of staff ; _
(d) in respect of mission expenses:
- the travel order duly signed by the competent authority;
- the expenses claim showing, in particular, the place of mission, the date and time of departure from and arrival at the place of assignment, travel expenses , subsistence expenses , and other expenses duly authorized , on production of supporting documents ; this claim shall
be signed by the official on mission and by the administrative superior to whom the appropriate powers have been delegated; v
(e) in respect of other staff expenditure:
- the supporting documents referring to the decision on which the expenditure is based and giving all the components of the calculation.
In the case of all commitments which involve payments in instalments, a certified true copy of the contract shall be atiached to the first
payment order. Reference to that document and to the preceding payment(s) shall be made, on the other payment orders.
If a single supporting document covers several payments, all the payment orders shall bear a reference to the original document.
Except in "the cases referred, "to above, if an original supporting document cannot be produced, a certified true copy may be substituted for it by the
Authorizing Officer, who must explain why the original could not be produced and must certify that the payment has hot been made.
THE GRAFTING OF ADVANCES (Article 42 of the Financial Regulation)
Apart from the advances provided for in the Staff Regulations or a provision laid down by Regulation*- the Authorizing Officer may .grant advances to cover . expenditure to he incurred by an official on behalf of his Institution. Such expenditure* which generally comes under Titles 1 and 2 of the Budget * may arise from specific business and/or be completely unforeseen.
The granting of such advances and the designation of the responsible official shall be the sub.ject of a decision by the authorities referred to in Article 18 of the Financial Regulation* on a proposal from the Authorising Officer, after the Financial Controller has given his endorsement and a favourable opinion has been .given by the Accounting Officer. Such decision shall specify the aaount of the advance and the period during which it is to be used.
The designated official shall be responsible for the funds placed at his disposal and shall take every precaution to ensure their safekeeping.
No later than ten days after the purpose for which the advance was granted has been achieved* he shall give the Accounting Officer a detailed account of the use made of it and shall pay back any unused amount.
No later than six weeks after the above point in time the Authorizing Officer shall settle the advance in order to ad.just the suspense account opened when it was granted.
BANK AMD POST OFFICE GIRO ACCOUNTS (Article 48 of the Financial Regulation)
To carry out financial transactions the Institution may open bank and/or
post office giro accounts in the Community countries and, where - appropriate, in third countries.
The Institution may also hold accounts with the central Dank in every Member State or with the approved financial institution.
£he Institution shall communicate to all the ixnancxal institutions with
which i-^/voids accounts the names and specimen signatures of the staff
designa*vd by it who are specifically authorized to open and draw on such . account* ,
(Article 49 °? the Financial Regulation)
o draw on such accounts the joint signatures of two duly authorized members
of the staff ' shall be required, one signature necessarily being that of the Accounting Officer, an Assistant Accounting Officer or an Imprest Administrator.
Article 45 As a general rule , payment : >'
- of the monthly remunerations of officials and other staff, and I
– of expenditure relating to supplies or. services exceeding
200 European Units of Account must be made by cheque or by post office giro or bank transfer.
The setting up of imprests shall .be the subject of a decision by the , authorities referred to in Article 18 of the Financial Regulation, on a proposal from the Authorizing Officer, after a favourable opinion has been given by the" Accounting Officer and the Financial Controller.
Tne appointment of an Imprest Administrator shall be the subject of a decision by the authorities referred to in Article 18 of the Financial Regulation, on a proposal from the Authorizing Officer, after a favourable opinion has been given by the Accounting Officer.
Such decision shall indicate the responsibilities of the Imprest Administrator.
The decisions referred, to in Articles 4° and 47 shall be communicated
to the Authorizing Officers , the Financial Controller , the Accounting Officer and the Conrt of Auditors .
The decision setting up an imprest shall specify, in particular:
(a) the maximum amount which can be set aside as an imprest;
(b) whether a bank and/or post office giro account is to be opened in the name of the Institution concerned;
(c) the nature and maximum amount of every expenditure which may be • effected without prior authorization;
(d) the time within which supporting documents must be produced and the procedure for producing them;
(e) the procedure to be followed if the imprest has to be replenished; (f) the time within which imprest system transactions must be settled. Article 50
Every Imprest Administrator shall be responsible to the Authorizing Officer for the collection of sums due, and to the Accounting Officer for the
making of payments.
He shall keep an account of the funds at his disposal and ,of the expenditure effected, in accordance with the instructions of the Accounting Officer. ■ '
The Imprest Administrator shall take all the necessary precautions to safeguard the funds placed at his disposal.
Without prejudice to the audits performed by the Financial Controller, the Accounting Officer must himself, or through an Assistant Accounting
Officer , carry out checks , which should normally be effected on spot and without warning, on the funds allocated to the Imprest Administrators and on their accounts .
Every call for tenders snail in particular: .
The Accounting Officer and the Financial Controller shall inform each other of the results of their checks and shall communicate them to the
(Article 51 of the Financial Regulation) , Article 55
Calls for tenders shall, as far as possible, follow a standard form or a
(a) specify the procedure for submitting tenders, and stipulate how they are standaM6reply<i^orn°1UiiinS in an^ requirement as to the use of a
(b). state whether the Protocol on privileges and immunities applies
and make reference to the. general conditions applicable to the contract concerned (supplies, works, servicesor publications) and to any document containing conditions specifically applicable to the particular contract concerned; , •
(c) include a clause stating that the submission of a tender implies acceptance of the'relevant conditions; 1
(d) specify the terms under which an' inspection may be made, to be set out in detail ^in the case of on-the-spot inspections;
(e) specify the period during which a tender will remain valid and may not be varied in any respect;
(f) specify the penalties for failure ifo comply vjith the provisions of the contract;
(g) specify the details which must' be contained in the invoices (or in the relevant supporting documents) in accordance with the provisions of Title VII;
(h) prohibit any contact between the Institution and tenderers save, by way of special exception, under the following conditions:
1 . Before "the closing date for the submission of tenders : – at the instance of tenderers :
additional information solely for the purpose of clarifying the nature of the call for tenders may be communicated to suppliers;
– at the instance of the Institution:
if the departments of the Institution notice an error, a lack of precision, an omission or any other type of material defect in the text of the call for tenders, they may, in a manner identical to that applicable in respect of vthe original call for tenders , inform the persons concerned accordingly; ' .
2. After the tenders have been opened and at the instance of the departments of the Institution, if some clarification is repaired in connection with a tender, or if obvious material errors contained in the
tender must be corrected, the Institution may contact the tenderer.
In every case 'where contact has been made under the conditions provided for above (Article $6 h), a "Bote for the file" shall be dram up ana such contact shall be mentioned in the report to be submitted subsequently to the Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts.
The general conditions applicable to the proposed contract shall be attached to the call for tenders. Any document containing conditions
specifically applicable to the particular contract concerned shall also be attached .
The deadline for the submission of tenders shall be fixed according to the nature of the contract, and shall be dependent on the length of time necessary for the preparation of the reply to the call for tenders.
- either by post: 1
In this case the call for tenders must specify that the relevant date
shall be that of postage, the post–mark to be conclusive evidence of such date. Tenders submitted by post must be registered.
– or "by delivery in person to the Institution:
In this case the call for tenders must state the date and time by which tenders must be submitted and specify the department to which they must be delivered against a signed and dated receipt.
The date must be the same in both cases.
In order to maintain secrecy and to avoid any difficulties, the call for tenders must include a provision as follows:
"Tenders must be submitted in a sealed envelope itself enclosed within
g, second sealed envelope. The inner envelope shall bear, in addition to the name of the department to which it is addressed, as indicated in
the call for tenders, the words "Call for tenders – Mot to be opened
by the registry". If self-adhesive envelopes are used they shall be sealed with adhesive tape across which the sender shall place his signature ."
■ Every tender must be opened.
Tenders which do not satisfy the conditions laid down in the call for tenders shall be eliminated. .
All the tenderers shall be informed of the decision taken with regard to their tenders#
(Articles 54 and 94 of the Financial Regulation)
The Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts shall be required to give its opinion, in an advisory capacity, in accordance with the provisions of Articles J^L, ^ and of the Financial Regulation, on:
(a) all proposed contracts for works, supplies or services involving' amounts
exceeding those given in Articles ^4 and £4 of the Financial Regulation and on proposed purchases of immovable property, irrespective of the amount involved;
(b) any proposed agreement supplementary to, any contract as referred to in (a) whenever the effect of such supplementary agreement would be to alter the amount involved in the original contract:
(c) any proposed supplementary agreement the effect which would "be to raise . the total amount involved in a contract already concluded to
an amount above the limits referred to in (a);
(d) the standard forms and texts for calls for tenders and on any proposed texts involving an .appreciable departure from such standard texts ;
(e) proposed calls for tenders which are particularly important or are of a special nature;
(f) questions arising at the time of conclusion or in the course of performance of contracts ( e.g. cancellation of orders , requests for remission of penalties for delay, departures from the specifications and general conditions of contract ), should the matter be sufficiently serious to justify a request for an opinion;
(g) at the request of the competent Authorizing Officer'or of a member
of the Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts, proposed contracts involving an amount below the limits referred to in (a), where he considers that such contracts involve questions of principle or are of a special nature .
The Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts snail make:
(a) recommendations with regard to the general supply policy both within and outside the Community and shall carry out, or have carried out, such investigations and studies- as may be necessary;
(b) recommendations with regard to general conditions for procurements and contracts .
The files submitted to the Advisory Committee on Procurements ana Contracts for an opinion shall be accompanied by a report drawn up and presented
by the competent official or by an alternate designated by the
Every case shall be the subject of an opinion, whicn shall be signed by the Chairman. Such opinions shall be communicated to the departments concerned.
Every Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts shall draw up its
own rules of procedure, which shall be communicated to the Advisory Committees on Procurements and Contracts of the other Institutions.
(Article 56 °f "the Financial Regulation) v
When, by way of guarantee of performance of contracts, the supplier or
contractor is required to provide a preliminary deposit , such deposit must ,
in principle, consist of a,payment made to the Institution in the same currency as that prescribed for the payment to be made for the supplies or works .
This deposit may be replaced by a joint and several personal guarantee' given by a third party approved by 'the' Institution.
.The usual supporting documents accompanying the first order to pay drawn up pursuant to a contract requiring the provision of a deposit shall be supplemented by a copy, certified true by the Accounting Officer, of the receipt issued when the deposit was paid, or by a copy, certified true by the Accounting Officer, of a declaration from the establishment or third party providing the guarantee .
Deposits shall be repaid, or the guarantees given in place thereof released,
in accordance with the provisions relating to the conclusion of contracts, , ' except in cases of non-performance or late performance as referred to in the
final paragraph of Article 56 of the Financial Regulation.
– with a purchase price of at least 60 Eurorean Units of Account (250 European Units of Account in the case of movable property of a scientific or technical nature ), and.
– of which the normal useful life exceeds one year (two years in the case of movable property of a scientific or technical nature ), and
– which is not a consumer good. <
ADVERTISEMENT OF SALES OF MOVABLE PROPERTY (Article 60 of the Financial Regulation)
Article 73 The sale of movable property shall be:
(a) suitablyadvertisedlocallyiftheunitpurchasepricewasatleast 4 000 European Units of Account ;
(b) advertisedbyanoticeofsalepublishedintheOfficialJournal of the European Communities if the unit purchase price was at least 200 000 European Units of Account .. Such sales m^y also be suitably advertised in the press of the Member States. ,
Advertisements in the press shall not be necessary if, in view of the cost involved, no particular benefit would be gained.
Defined in the context of the Joint Research Centre in the
(Doc. 13.13l/XV/68-F) and the 'Nomenclature des matériels - canevas général' (Doc. EUR/c/5115/^5~F and updatings).
(Article 66 of the Financial Regulation) Article 74
1 Drawing-up of the chart of accounts
The chart of accounts shall he divided into two separate parts :
1. Thebudgetaccountsshallshow,foreverysubdivisionoftheBudget:
- the entitlements established and amounts received in respect of the financial year in question:
- the commitments and payments in respect of the financial year in question.
2. Separateaccountsshallbeopenedsothattheuseofappropriations carried overhand the collection of the amounts outstanding can be recorded separately . .
3. The accounts may be itemized in order to provide a basis for analytical results .
4* Theaccountsshallbekeptinbooks,oronfilecards,orbymeansof a data-processing system. >
1. Thegeneralaccountsshallenablethesituationinrespectofthe Institution*s assets and liabilities to be ascertained.
2m Thechartofaccountsto"beusedforthegeneralaccountsshallbe drawn up on the basis of a decimal classification system.
 3. Thefollowingclassesofaccount,atleast,shallbekept:
Accounts with third Financial accounts , Expenditureaccounts,
Income accounts , Outturnaccounts, '
4* Eachoftheseclassesofaccountshallcomprisegroups(withatwo-digit code) which, in their turn, shall be subdivided into subgroups (with a
three-digit code), and the latter shall be divided into accounts (with a five-digit code).
5. Class4'Accountswiththirdparties'shallrecordalloperationswith third parties and adjustment accounts.
Class 4 shall comprise the following principal groups :
- advances to st&ff,
- accounts between Institutions,
- sundry debtors and creditors,
- funds to be transferred,
- revenue and expenditure to be booked,
- suspense accounts for ro-use.
- departments with separate accounts (sickness fund),
- suspense accounts for transfers of scientific and technical equipment
between research and investment objectives.
6. Class5 'Financialaccounts' shallindicatethetransactionsinsecurities, cash office, bank and post office giro transactions, and transactions carried out by the Assistant Accounting Officers and the Imprest Administrators.
Class 5 shall comprise the following principeal groups :
- shares and securities on deposit, - cash offices,
7. Class6"Expenditureaccounts"shallrecordthegrossamountsofitemsof expenditure entered in the budget accounts.
 Separate accqunts shall be opened for expenditure relating to :
– appropriations for the current financial year,
– appropriations carried over pursuant to Article 6(l)(b ) of the
– appropriations carried over prusuant to Article 6(l)(c) of the
– commitment appropriations outstanding pursuant to Article 6(2)(a)
of the Financial Regulation,
– payment appropriations carried over pursuant to Article 6(2)("b)
of the Financial Regulation.
8. Class 7 -"Income accounts' shall indicate the gross amounts of established entitlements entered in the budget accounts. ~
Separate accounts shall be opened for entitlements established:
V''.'■ - m the course of the current financial year,
- still outstanding from previous financial years.
9. Class 8 KXitturn accounts'' shall show the outturn of the financial year:
- amounts outstanding or received in excess, ' - debtor and creditor Member States , . x
- surplus for the financial year.
10. Each Institution shall draw up a chart of accounts along the lines set
out above . It shall create groups , subgroups and individual accounts depending on its particular needs .
Functioning of the chart of accounts
1 . The general accounts shall be kept for each calendar year using the double entry method.
2. The accounts shall be kept in books, or on file cards, or by means of a data-processing system.
3. The accounts shall enable the general balance of the accounts to be established , i.e. , the statement of all the Institution 's assets and liabilities accounts , including the balanced accounts with , in each case :
4* The accounts shall be kept in such a way as to enable a detailed analysis of the balances of accounts with third parties to be made.
5. ThecurrentaccountsoftheotherInstitutionsshallhesettledperiodically.
6. Thesuspenseaccountsshall"bekeptunderconstantreviewandshall"be settled as soon as possible , and at any event within the period specified in Article 6^ of the Financial Regulation.
7. Thesuspenseaccountsforre-useshall"betomakeitpossibletomonitor the re-use of the types of income specified in Article 22(2) of the Financial Regulation and to enable the statement provided for at the end of Article 73(1 ) and (3) to be drawn up.
8. Thefinancial(bankandpostofficegiro)accountsshallbekeptin national currencies and in the currency in which the accounts as a -whole are . kept .
9. TheaccountsoftheJointResearchCentreshallbeincludedinthe Commission's general accounts.
(Article 70 of the Financial Regulation)
The Accounting Offier shall be appointed by each Institution from officials ofcategoriesAorBwhoarenationalsoftheMemberStates. 1
Assistant Accounting Officers shall be appointed by each Institution from officials of categories A. B or C who are nationals of the Member States.
Imprest Administrators shall be chosen' from officials of categories A, B and C, or,shouldtheneedarise, fromotherstaffhavingastatusequivalenttothose categories.
The Accounting Officer, Assistant Accounting Officers, and Imprest Administrators shall insure themselves, through the Institution, against the financial risks inherent in their duties.
The premiums for "this insurance shallbe paid directly to the insurer by the Institution.
Without prejudice to:
- Articles 86 to 89 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European
 Communities and. the conditions of employment of other servants of the Communities, •
- Article 22. of the Financial Regulation applicable to the General Budget of the European Communities,
' – the Institution's right of recovery vis–£/-vis third parties,
the Institution shall bear all risks and deficits not covered by the insurers , in so far as the amounts' credited to the gurantee account opened in the name
of the official whose liability is involved are not\sufficient to cover the deficit .
Themonthlyamount, ofthespecialallowancereferredtoinArticle22of.the Financial Regulation shall be:
– 120 European Units of Account, for the Accounting bfficer,
– 80 European Units of Account for Assistant Accounting Officer,
– 40 European Units of Ac-count for Imprest Administrators, where the amount of the imprest is at least 1 000 European Units of Account and where the period of the imprest is at least 30 consecutive days.
A guarantee account in -the name of each entitled person shall "be opened in
the Institution's non-budcret accounting system. This account shall be credited periodically with the monthly allowance referred to in Article 82 and interest calculated on the basis of the interest which the Institution receives on its bank assets. It shall be debited by the amount of the deficit for which the . person concerned is declared liable by the Institution which appointed him,
in so far as the deficit is not covered by payments from the insurers.
When an Accounting Officer, Assistant Accounting Officer or Imprest
Administrator terminates his duties, any balance standing to his credit in
the guarantee account shall be paid to him or to those entitled through him, after a decision has been taken by the authorities referred to in Article 18
of the Financial Regulation and the final discharge referred to in Article JZ of the Financial Regulation has been granted, and after the Accounting Officer,
save where he himself is concerned, and the Financial Controller have given a favourable opinion. ' ■ . - . i
Sfttch payment shall be made exclusively on the instructions, in writing, of the head of the Directorate-General or administrative unit to which the Accounting Officer is assigned.
(Article 108(7) of the Financial Regulation)
Pending the entry into force of the Council Regulation on the procedure for r.t)T)1ving the, European Unit of Account to the legal acts adopted "by . the Institutions of the European Communities! revenue end expenditure shall he entered in the accounts in European Units of Account.
Conversion between European Units of Account and national currencies shall be on the basis of the monthly rates.
The monthly rates shall be determined for each currency on the basis of the rates for the European Unit of Account on the penultimate working dav of the month preceding that for which, the rates are established. saving the special provisions for payments of own resources and
VAT twelfths. The conversion rates for the currencies of certain third countries are at present calculated in relation to their cruotation on the London Stock Exchange on the Monday immediately preceding or coinciding with the day adopted for determining the monthly rate.
By way of derogation from the provisions of Article 86. the rate to be used for the month "n" in the case of expenditure financed by the Guarantee Section of the EAGGP. and food aid expenditure which is the subject of advances shall be the twelfth day of the month "n" - 2 or the first preceding day for which a general quotation is available. ■
The differences in national currenc?/ between the financial resources made available to the Member States for a given month and the expenditure entered in the accounts for the same month shall be reconverted into
EUA at the rates for the following month.
The differences referred to in Article 99 of the Financial Regulation shall be entered in the accounts at the rate for expenditure of the
month during which the decisions concerning the clearance of accounts are adopted.
The amount in European Units of Account of a claim denominated in a national currency shall be modified on the basis of the exchange rate in force in the month in which the sum due is recovered. In the event of recovery by instalments, this modification shall not concern the
part recovered earlier. The established entitlements outstanding may be periodically reassessed, the final reassessment for the financial year being made at the December rate.
Commission proposal of 4 October 1976 (COM(76)513 final).
Where commitment proposals and claim establishments are drawn up in a national ciirrency. they shall be converted into European Units of Account at the rate in force in the month of entry in the accounts.
TVtg f-.nT'-ppRpnn^inr' payment order and the recovery order must "be drawn up in the sa?o currency .
The balance of a commitment and a claim establishment in a national currency shall be reassessed each time a payment is' made, or a sum
due is collected, at the monthly rate used for the payment m question.
The December rates of the-European Unit of Account shall "be'used to
calculate tne commitments outstanding at the end of the financial year and , in the case of non-differentiated appropriations , xo determine the appropriations to be carried over .
Payments ma-ie in respect of a given financial year "between the first and fifteenth day of January of the following .year shall be entered in the accounts , for budget purposes , at the December rate of the
European Unit of Account .
In the case of non-differentiated appropriations, commitments outstanding shall be settled in respect of the amounts carried over in national currencies or in European Units of Account; payments shall be entered in the accounts at the monthly rates in force at the times of payment. However, the amount of the appropriations carried over expressed in . European Units of Account shall have binding force in respect of each particular budget item; payments against commitments still to be settled shall be charged against the cvtrrent year's appropriations for the . budget item in question if the appropriations carried over in respect
of that budget item are exhausted .
In the case of differentiated appropriations, the adjustments of commitments outstanding from earlier years worked out at the time of payment or periodical reassessments shall give rise to the booking of positive or negative appropriations outstanding , as appropriate , as long as such adjustments are made within two years of the year of origin.
In addition, the balances in question may be reassessed periodically, the final reassessment for the I'mancial year Demg maae at tne
The amounts specified in Articles 45, 72, 73 and 82 shall be adjusted in accordance with variations in the Belgian consumer price index, the index for reference being that of December 1980 (100), every time that the size of the variation reaches:
- 50$ in the case of the amounts specified in Articles 45t 72 and 73, – lOfo in the case of the amounts specified in Article 82.
The Commission shall determine the new amounts, rounded off to the nearest Unit of Account above or below, and shall communicate them ( to the other Institutions.
The detailed rules above shall not affect the application of the -
special provisions of the Financial Regulation relating to research and investment appropriations (Title VII of the Financial Regulation),
the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guidance ar.d
Guarantee Fund (Title VIII of the Financial Regulation), food aid
(Title IX of'the Financial Regulation) and the Official Publications Office of the European Communities (Title X of the Financial Regulation).
Within six months of the date of entry into force of this Regulation, the Institutions shall inform the Court of Auditors of the provisions that they have adopted in order to apply it.
These detailed rules for the implementation of the Financial Regulation shall take effect on
For the Commission The President.
(1) article 23, paragraphe 1 dy règlement financier
recher chesT" ""s
des offres , notamment
d' offres .
sind in
July 1980
1 . On 30 June 1975 the Commission adopted a Regulation laying down detailed
rules for the implementation of certain provisions of the Financial Regulation
1 .,~.2 of 25 April 1973 pursuant to Article 118 of that Financial Regulation .
A new Financial Regulation was adopted on 21 December 1977 • Like its
predecessor, it provides that – in consultation with the European Parliament and the Council and after the other Institutions have delivered their
opinions – the Commission is to adopt detailed rules for implementing
it (Article 106). As a temporary measure, however, the 1975 Implementing Rules have continued to be applied mutatis mutandis even after the 1977
Financial Regulation was adopted. As the Court of Auditors mentioned
in its Annual Report relating to the financial year 1978 , this is not
a very satisfactory legal situation.
2. In the normal course of - events the 1975 Implementing Rules should
have be-en updated after the new Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 came into force, in order to align the two texts. This updating operation was postponed, however, mainly because it seemed preferable to await a number of important decisions liable to affect the form and the substance of the Implementing Rules, in particular the adoption of a proposal for
a Regulation on the procedure for applying the European Unit of Account5 and new provisions concerning borrowing/lending operations^.
However, since no decision is forthcoming on these proposals, there seems
to be little point in delaying revision of the Implementing Rules any longer. Nor does it seem reasonable to await the outcome of the revision of
the Financial Regulation which the Commission will be proposing to the Council and Parliament at the end of the year in line with Article 107. This
^Commission Regulation of 30 June 1975? L 170 of 1 July 1975*
^Financial Regulation of 25 April 1973, 0J L 116 of 1 May 1973. .Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977, 0J L 356 of 31 December 1977.
, 0J C 326 of 31 December 1979 , Section 1.22 .
gOJ C 271 of 17 November 1976. 0J C 160 of 6 July 1978.
 exercise is liable to take a relatively long time and. a further wait would merely prolong the present situation .
The Commission has therefore decided to go ahead with the revision . of the Implementing Rules. In the present circumstances however it considers
that revision should be confined to. a few specific changes, the essential aim being to bring them into line with the 1977 .Financial Regulation
rather than anticipate the major changes which will have to be envisaged once one or other of the abovementioned proposals is adopted, or as a result of the three–yearly review of 'the Financial Regulation referred to above.
3. This being so the present revision of the Implementing Rules has two main aims:
(a) To bring the Implementing Rules into line with the 1977 Financial Regulation by incorporating the new rules for which it provides
A number of Articles in the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977
stipulate that- their implementing conditions are to be determined by
the Implementing Rules, while the 1973 Financial Regulation did not
contain any provision of this kind. This means that new provisions for
implementing the Financial Regulation must be incorporated into the
Implementing Rules. The articles affected are Article 15a (forward
;1^ proposals concerning recurring revenue ) , Article 19a ( recovery of
revenue) , Article 40a to Article 40c (advances to cover disbursements
- to be effected by an official or other member" of staff on behalf of his /ν.-.·
institution) and Article 85 to Article 91 (conditions under which the
Ν4. 5 European Unit of Account is to be applied to revenue and expenditure) 'J
^1 Article 23(l) of the Financial Regulation. 'Article 24(4) of the Financial Regulation.
.Third paragraph of Article 42 of the Financial Regulation. Article 108(7 ) of the Financial Regulation. ,,
^It goes without saying, however, that as soon as the Council takes a decision concerning the introduction of the ECU, the Commission will do . the - necessary to replace the EUA by the ECU in the case of the attached regulation being definitively adopted.
 These new provisions to be incorporated into the Implementing Rules all reflect a desire to supplement as clearly as possible those Articles in
the Financial Regulation to which they relate . They in no way alter the overall scheme of the Implementing Rules in their present form.
(b) To update cert?,in technical and drafting features
A number of technical changes are envisaged in the light of the experience gained since the 1975 Implementing Rules came into force , notably in - relation to accounting.
The changes relate to Articles 15, 16 and 19 (to harmonize terminology and provisions)f Article 76 (to supplement paragraph 7 of this Article relating
to the accounts for appropriations carried over or outstanding in the chart
of accounts in order to take account of the special arrangements for carryovers introduced by Article 6 of the Financial Regulation as regards differentiated appropriations, and Article 78 (paragraph 3 of the Article allows the appointment of Category C officials as Assistant Accounting Officers only subject to certain conditions , whereas paragraph 4 does not make this distinction concerning Imprest Administrators : to overcome difficulties which have emerged in practice, an alignment of the provisions concerning Assistant Accounting Officers on those concerning Imprest Administrators is envisaged).
A second set of amendments concerns the various amounts expressed in EUA contained in the Implementing Rules . The Articles concerned are Article 45 (paymentsbycheque),ArticleJ2(inventoryofmovableproperty), r
Article 73 (sales of movable property) and Article 82 (special allowance). The amounts in question should be doubled in order to bring them up to date , inthelightofchangesthathaveoccurred^. Consequently,theindexfor
referencereferredtoinArticle92, whichdatesbackto1971, shouldbethe index for the end of 1980, which is when this revision will take effect.
Consumer price index in May 1980 = 192.58 (1971 = 100)
 This proposal also seeks to bring the implementing Rules up to date
purely as regards terminology and drafting . For example , a number of
new terms introduced in the 1977 Financial Regulation should be
incorporated ( Court of Auditors instead of Audit Board , Payment Order instead of Payment Voucher, Accounts Department instead of Central Accounts Department). Articles 2, 3, 13, 18, 27» 28, 37, 38, 39, 48,
Lastly , the title , certain recitals and the final provisions of the Implementing Rules should be adjusted to bring them into line with the situation created by the adoption of the present Financial Regulation.
laying down detailed rules
for the implementation I
of certain provisions
of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977
of :
laying down detailed rules for the implementation of certain
provisions of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community ;
' Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community j
1 ''' Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy
Community ; ■
Having regard to the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 applicable to the General Budget of the European Communities' , and in particular Article 106 thereof;
Having consulted the European Parliament and the Council ;
Having regard to the Opinions of the Court of Justice , the Court of Auditors and the Economic and Social Committee;
Whereas certain provisions of Articles 18, 19, 23, 24, 32, 33, 34, 37. 41, 42, 43, 49, 31. 54, 56, 59, 60, 66, 70, 94 and 108 of the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 explicitly provide that detailed rules shall be drawn up for their implementation;
Whereas a number of alterations should be made to the Commission Regulation of 30 June 19752 on measures of implementation of certain provisions of
the Financial Regulation of 25 April 1973| in order to bring these implementing rules into line with the Financial Regulation of
21 December 1977 and update certain technical and drafting features ;
\ Whereas the drawing–up of the rules in question does not preclude the drawing–up at a later date of other implementing rules for which no formal provision is made in the Financial Regulation but
which might subsequently appear appropriate, HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: :
(Article 18 of the Financial Regulation) Article 1
The acts by which powers are delegated pursuant to Article 18 of the Financial Regulation shall designate those members of staff of the Institution authorized to sign for and on behalf of the delegator.
In such acts reference shall be made to the provisions of the rules of procedure referred to in the third .paragraph of Article 18 setting out the conditions governing the delegation of powers.
The said acts, accompanied by a specimen signature of the official to whom powers have been delegated , shall be communicated :
– to the delegatee :
– to the Commission's Accounting Officer, who may not make any payment which has been authorized by officials not empowered to do so;
– to the Financial Controller, who shall be responsible inter alia for verifying the legality and regularity of revenue and expenditure;
– to the Authorizing Officers, only in the case of delegation of powers by the Financial Controller or by the Accounting Officer, or of delegation of powers by Authorizing Officers who have been subdelegated powers, within the limits of the powers given to them;
– to the Court of Auditors.
The acts terminating such delegations of powers shall also be communicated as provided for above.
In every case the act of delegation shall specify the limits within which the delegatees are authorized to draw up revenue vouchers , proposals for the commitment of expenditure and payment orders« the numbers of the Articles and Items iri respect of which powers have been delegated and, where appropriate , the length of time for which powers have been delegated
Acting m accordance with the provisions of the Financial Regulation and .. of this Regulation, each Institution shall adopt such measures for administering appropriations as it deems necessary for the proper implementation of its section of the Budget.
(Article 19 of the Financial Regulation)
Each Institution shall appoint, in a reasoned Decision, a Financial Controller who shall be responsible for the oon+rol of the commitment and authorization of all expenditure and ill® control of all revenue
tinder the Budget of the Communities in respect- of which the Institution is the authorizing body.
The Institution may appoint one or more. Assistant Financial Controllers. The latter shall report to the Financial Controller, who shall decide on the powers to be delegated to them. ■ They shall bear the responsibility
for the endorsements given by them in pursuance of the powers delegated to them .
The Financial Controller and the Assistant Financial Controllers shall be ohosen by the Institution from nationals of the Member States on the grounds of their particular qualifications.
The. Institution shall place at the disposal of the Financial Controller
the services necessary for the proper discharge of his control duties. i•
All decisions relating to the delegation and subdelegation of powers by the Finanoial Controller or the Assistant- Financial Controllers shall comply with the provisions of Articles 1 to 3 above.
In carrying out his control, duties, the Financial Controller shall be completely independent and shall be responsible only to the Institution. He may not receive any instructions as regards the performance of the duties assigned to him pursuant to the provisions of the Financial
Regulation by virtue of his appointment. .
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph shall also apply to the Assistant Financial Controllers, within the limits of the powers delegated to them by their immediate superior, the Financial Controller. .
The Financial Controller may present reports to the Institution, at any time and on any subject having financial implications , especially as regards sound financial management.,
The Financial Controller and the Assistant Financial Controllers shall have access to all supporting documents and to all other documents
relating to the expenditure and revenue to be checked. They may carry out on-the-spot checks.
The liability of the Financial Controller arid of the Assistant Financial Controllers to disciplinary action and, where appropriate, to payment of
compensation, within the meaning of Article 6£ of the Financial
Regulation, can be invoked only by the Institution itself, in the following circumstances :
 The Institution shall take a reasoned decision to conduct an inquiry. This decision shall be communicated to the person concerned and, if he is an Assistant Financial Controller, to the Financial Controller.
The Institution may, on its direct responsibility, instruct one or more officials of a grade not lower than that of the member of staff concerned and not carrying out the duties of Financial Controller , Authorizing Officer or Accounting Officer, to conduct the inquiry. During the inquiry the person concerned and , if he is an Assistant Financial Controller, the Financial Controller, must be given a hearing.
The report on the inquiry shall be communicated to the person concerned and, if he is an Assistant Financial Controller, to the Financial Controller. The person concerned, shall then be given a hearing by the Institution with regard to that report.
On the basis of the report and of the hearing, the Institution shall takeareasoned, decisiontogivethepersonconcernedadischargein respect of the matter examined or a reasoned, decision voider Articles 22 and 86 to 89 of the Staff Regulations. Decisions entailing disciplinary action and/or financial penalties shall be communicated, to the person concerned and, for information purposes, to the other Institutions, the Court of Auditors and, if the person concerned is an Assistant Financial Controller, to the Financial Controller.
The person concerned may lodge an appeal with the Court of Justice , in accordance with the provisions of the Staff Regulations , in respect of such decisions.
Witnout prejudice to the appeal procedures provided for in the Staff Regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants, the Financial Controller and the Assistant Financial Controllers may lodge an appeal with the Court of Justice with regard to any act relating to their control duties. Such appeals must be lodged within three months from the date of notification of the act in question. ~
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph shall also apply to appeals by the Institution against its Financial Controller or its Assistant Financial Controllers.
Appeals shall be investigated and heard as provided for in Article 91(5) of the Staff Regulations.
(Articles 23 and 24 of the Financial Regulation)
The competent Authorizing Officer shall make out a claim establishment form and a recovery order form in respect of every claim.
These two forms shall together constitute the revenue voucher.
These forms, duly completed, shall"be submitted to the Financial Controller for endorsement and shall be forwarded to the Authorizing Officer for registration before the competent Authorizing Officer communicates the recovery order to the debtor.
Where a claim will not be recovered in full in the financial year in which it is established , the following procedure shall be followed :
– the claim establishment form shall be made out in respect of the entire claim and shall contain, where possible, the muitiannual schedule of amounts likely to be recovered;
– the recovery order forms shall be made out for each instalment to be recovered during the financial year in which the claim is established and subsecruent financial years .
Forward proposals within the meaning of Article 23(0 of the Financial Regulation shall be strictly limited to recurring revenue and shall be in the form of duly completed revenue vouchers . Individual proposals shall not therefore require to be submitted separately to the Financial Controller for endorsement.
Eefore the end of the financial year, the Authorizing Officer shall submit to the Financial Controller, for endorsement, amendments to the forward proposals to ensure that they correspond to the claims actually established .
A claim establishment form should also be made out where it is not possible to ascertain the amount or due date of the claim from the act or decision giving rise to it.
The Authorizing Officer and the Financial Controller must be informed as soon as possible of each payment received. If in respect of any payment
there is no revenue voucher-drawn up pursuant to Article 15, the Authorizing Officer shall draw up such an order forthwith.
Registration of the revenue vouchers in the accounts shall be carried,
out by the accounts department of the Institution in such manner as
to ensure a proper oversight of all sums due to the Institution, with
a view in particular to enabling the following to be readily ascertained.:
– the measures which have been taken which are liable to give rise to a claim ;
– the amounts of the sums due ;
– the due dates for payment of the sums due;
– the sums which have been recovered ;
– the sums which have fallen due but have not been paid.
The accounts must be organized.in such a way that the Financial Controller is able to check, at any given moment , that the registration of the ' revenue vouchers is correct, thus enabling hiia to establish those matters required of him by Article 24(3) of the Financial Regulation.
All proposals to waive the right to recover an established claim shall specify in particular the type of revenue , its estimated amount , the budget item in craestion. the grounds for the waiver and the name of the debtor.
Tf the superior authority of the Institution overrules the Financial Control^r' s refusal to give his endorsement , the decision shall be forwarded to the Authorizing Officer who shall return the waiver proposal, tog-ether with the decision, to the Financial Controller. The waiver proposal , together with the decision to overrule shall be registered
in accordance with the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 23(2) of the Financial Regulation .
(Article 32 of the Financial Regulation)
Before taking any measure which may give rise to expenditure , the competent Authorizing.Officer mast present the Financial Controller with a commitment proposal. Such proposals shall in principle be drawn up in accordance with a standard form to "be adopted by unanimous . agreement by the Authorizing Officer , the Accounting Officer and the Financial Controller. Such commitment proposals must give the information referred to in Article '^3 of the Financial Regulation.
Draftdecisionsofageneralnature takenbytheInstitutionentailing an obligation to incur expenditure shall constitute measures which may give rise to expenditure.^
If a decision of principle by the Institution must precede
the commitment of expenditure, the draft decision of principle shall first of all be submitted ' to the Financial Controller for his
endorsement. . When the Institution has adopted the draft decision, appropriations, corresponding to the expenditure to be incurred shall be reserved for this purpose.
At the time of commitment of the expenditure, after the Financial Controller has given his endorsement, the-appropriations reserved shall be released to cover the corresponding commitment document.
Thedraftcommitmentdocument, drawnupinaccordancewiththedecision to incur the expenditure, shall be the subject of a commitment proposal which shall be submitted to the Financial Controller for prior endorsement and subsequently registered as committed appropriations and deducted from the appropriations previously reserved.
1This expression is to be interpreted as follows: "Every measure whicn in itself may give rise to expenditure, without any further decision being required".
Provisional commitments within the meaning of Article _32(1 ) of the Financial Regulation shall be strictly limited to recurring expenditure. Individual commitments covered by such provisional commitments shall not require to be submitted separately to the Financial Controller for endorsement .
In the case of provisional commitments, the Authorizing Officer shall check , on his own responsibility , that the individual commitments do not exceed the provisional commitment by which they are covered.
Such provisional commitments shall not give rise to the automatic
carryings-over of appropriations as provided for in Article 6 of the
Financial Regulation (unless they correspond , at the end of the financial year ,- to financial commitments actually entered into before the deadlines laid down in the Financial Regulation.
If, in the case of certain measures which may give rise to expenditure, no exact figures can .be given for the expenditure when the relevant commitment proposal is presented to the Financial Controller and communicated to the Accounting Officer, the Authorizing Officer must estimate the expenditure involved and set out in his commitment proposal the basis on which he has arrived at his estimate.
All commitment proposals must be submitted to the Financial Controller sufficiently early to enable any comments which he might wish to make to be taken into consideration .
Proposals for the commitment of expenditure must be accompanied by all relevant supporting documents and , where appropriate , by any other documents which are necessary to enable the Financial Controller to establish the matters required of him, as well as by any other information which will enable the Financial Controller to assess the transaction from
point of view of sound financial management.
(Article 33 of -the Financial Regulation)
Commitment proposals shall be registered by the Institution's accounts department. This registration procedure must make it possible to ascertain at any given moment which budget items or headings contain reserved appropriations, ths amounts of the commitments entered into, the payments made in that connection, the payments still to be made and the appropriations available.
The accounts must be organized in such a way as to guarantee that the Financial Controller is able to check that commitments and payments have been registered accurately,, so that he can, at any given moment, ascertain the extent to which the appropriations have been utilized and inform the Authorizing Officers of his findings.
(Article 34 of the Financial Regulation)
Subject to the provisions of Article 30 below, endorsement shall be given by the placing on the commitment proposal of the signature of the Financial Controller or of an Assistant Financial Controller. In.
addition the words "Endorsed by the Financial Controller" shall be stamped on the proposal, and the date of endorsement shall be shown.
In urgent cases , endorsement may be given by any other means which leaves no doubt commitment proposal in question has been
in a note or by telex or as to the faot that the endorsed.
Endorsement shall constitute proof that all the points listed under Article 34 (a) to (d) of the Financial Regulation have been complied with.
If, pursuant to Article 3^5 of the Financial Regulation, the superior authority of the Institution overrules the Financial Controller's refusal to give his endorsement, the decision shall be forwarded to the Authorizing Officer who shall return the commitment proposal, together with the decision , to the Financial Controller . The commitment proposal , together with the decision to overrule , shall "be registered in accordance with the provisions of Article 3j} of the Financial Regulation.
If the Financial Controller considers that the supporting documents provided for in Articles 32., and 4J. of the Financial Regulation and .
further defined in Articles 34 to 40 below, are inadequate or incomplete , he shall postpone his endorsement and return the proposal to the Authorizing Officer , specifying the supporting evidence required .
(Articles 37 and 41 of the Financial Regulation)
In the case of supplies in general, the following shall constitute a valid supporting document :
- the invoice drawn up by the supplier , accompanied , where appropriate , by one of the copies of the document giving rise to the Community's ; obligation (e.g. order form or contract).
In every case the document drawn up by the supplier must indicate : 1 "
– the nature and quantity of the supplies or, where appropriate, a description of the services rendered in that connection,
- the unit price and the total price ,
"– any exemption from charges and taxes and, where appropriate , the amount of any charges, taxes and customs duties in respect of the supply of the goods which are included in the price.
In addition, this dooument must contain information supplied by the . Authorizing Officer, or the official to whom he has delegated authority, - certifying that :
– the supplies have been duly received, with an indication of the date and place of receipt ,
 has been rendered.
– the supplies have been entered in the inventory, where this is required , v
– all items in the invoice have "been checked, and
– the Opinion of the Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts, has
been given, where this is required.
The same information may_.be given on a receipt certificate.
In the case of services, the invoice (or bill of costs) drawn up by the ,
supplier shall constitute a valid supporting document. ' ··
The document must:
– state the nature of the service , where appropriate the unit price , the total price and any exemption from charges and taxes or, in so far as this is possible , the .amount of any charges and taxes in respect of the service which are included in the price;
– bear the words "passed for payment" placed on it by the Authorizing Officer or by the official to whom he has delegated authority, certifying that the service has been rendered properly and that all the items in the invoice (or bill of costs) have been checked.
In the case of study and research contracts , the following shall constitute supporting documents:
(a) a copy of the contract and of any supplementary agreements, to be attached to the first order to pay;
(b) any document which, pursuant to the financial provisions in the contract, substantiates the corresponding payments (request from the contractor, invoices, titles of the management committees in the
case of contracts of association, or any other document substantiating expenditure). The final payment must necessarily be accompanied by a document drawn up by the Authorizing Officer certifying that the service
In the case of staff expenditure, the following shall constitute supporting documents :
(a) in respect of the monthly salary: -
– the complete list of staff, giving all the components of the remuneration. This list shall be attached to the payment order:
– a form (personal information sheet) showing any change occurring in any component of the remuneration. This form shall be drawn up on the "basis of the decisions taken in each particular case;
– in the case of recruitments or appointments, a certified true copy of the recruitment or appointment decision shall accompany the first salary payment?
(b) in respect of oth?r remunerations: (staff paid on an'hourly or daily basis)
<r a statement drawn up by the Authorizing Officer showing the days and „ hours of attendance:
(o) in respect of overtimer
- a statement signed by the authorized official certifying the amount of overtime worked by the member of staff;
(d) in respect of mission expenses;
- the travel order duly signed by the competent authority;
- the expenses claim showing, in particular, the place of mission, the date and time of departure from and arrival at the place of assignment , travel expenses, subsistence expenses, and other expenses duly authorized, on production of supporting documents; this claim shall
be signed by the official on mission and by the administrative superior to whom the appropriate powers have been delegated;
(e)inrespectofotherstaffexpenditure: <
- the supporting documents referring to the decision on which the expenditure is based and giving all the components of the calculation.
In the case of all commitments which involve payments in instalments, a certified true copy of the contract shall be attached to the first
payment order. Reference to that document and to the preceding payment(s) shall be made on the other payment orders.
If a single supporting document covers several payments, all the payment orders shall bear a reference to the original document. "
Except in the cases referred to above, if an original supporting document cannot be produced, a certified true copy may be substituted for it by the
Authorizing Officer, who must explain why the original could not be produced and must certify that the payment has not been made.
(Article 42 of the Financial Regulation) *'
Apart from the advances provided for in the Staff Regulations or a provision laid down fry Regulation, the Authorizing Officer may grant advances to cover ' expenditure to "be incurred "by an official on behalf of his Institution. Such expenditure, which generally comes under Titles 1 and 2 of the Budget, may arise from specific business and /or be completely unforeseen *
The granting of such advances and the designation of the responsible official shall be the subject of a decision by the authorities referred to in Article 18 of the Financial Regulation, on a proposal from the
Authorizing Officer, after the Financial Controller has given his endorsement and a favourable opinion has been given by the Accounting Officer. Such decision shall specify the amount of the advance and the period during which it is to be used.
The designated official shall be responsible for the funds placed at his disposal and shall take every precaution to ensure their safekeeping.
No later than ten days after the purpose for which the advance was granted has been achieved, he shall give the Accounting Officer a detailed account of the use made of it and shall pay back any unused amount.
No later than six weeks after the above point in time the Authorizing Officer shall settle the advance in order to adjust the suspense account opened when it was granted .
BANK AND POST OFFICE GIRO ACCOUNTS (Article 48 of the Financial Regulation)
To carry out financial transactions the Institution may open bank and/or post office giro accounts in the Community countries and, where appropriate, in third countries.
The Institution may also hold accounts with the central bank in every Member State or with the approved financial institution.
The Institution shall communicate to all the financial institutions with which it holds accounts the names and -specimen signatures of the staff
designated by it who are specifically authorized to open and draw on such accounts .
To draw on such accounts the joint signatures of two duly authorized members of the staff shall be required, one signature necessarily being that
of the Accounting Officer, an Assistant Accounting Officer or an
As a general rule , payment :
– of the monthly remunerations of officials and other staff, and
– of expenditure relating to supplies or services exceeding
200 European Units of Account must be made by cheque or by post office giro or bank transfer.
(Article 49 of the Financial Regulation)
The setting up of imprests shall be the subject of a decision by the authorities referred to in Article 18 of the Financial Regulation, on a proposal from the Authorizing Officer, after a favourable opinion has been given by the Accounting Officer and the Financial Controller.
The appointment of an Imprest Administrator shall be the subject of a decision by the authorities referred to in Article 18 of the Financial Regulation, on a proposal from the Authorizing Officer, after a favourable opinion has been given -by the Accounting Officer.
Such decision shall indicate the responsibilities of the Imprest Administrator. ,
The decisions referred, to in Articles 46 and 47 shall be communicated
to the Authorizing Officers," the Financial Controller, the Accounting Officer and the Court of Auditors.
The decision setting up an imprest shall specify, in particular:
(a) the maximum amount which can be set aside as an imprest;
(b) whether a bank and/or post office giro account is to be. opened in the name of the Institution concerned;
(c) the nature and maximum amount of every expenditure which may be effected without prior authorization;
(d) the time within which supporting documents must be produced and the procedure for producing them;
(e) the procedure to be followed if the imprest has to be replenished; (f) the time within which imprest system transactions must be settled. Article 50
Every Imprest Administrator shall be responsible to the Authorizing Officer for the collection of sums due, and to the Accounting Officer for the making of payments.
He shall keep an account of the funds at his disposal and of the expenditure effected, in accordance with the instructions of the Accounting Officer.
The Imprest Administrator shall take all the necessary precautions to safeguard the funds placed at his disposal.
Without prejudice to the audits performed by tne Financial Controller, the Accounting Officer must himself, or through an Assistant Accounting
Officer, carry out checks, which should normally be effected on the
spot and without warning, on the funds allocated to the Imprest Administrators and on their accounts .
The Accounting- Officer and the Financial Controller shall inform each
other of the results of their checks and shall communicate them to the Authorizing Officer.
(Article 51 of the Financial Regulation) Article 55
Calls for tenders shall, as far as possible, follow a standard form or a standard text .
Every call for tenders shall in particular:
(a) specify the procedure for submitting tenders, and stipulate how they are
to "be presented, including in particular any recruirement as to the use of a standard reply form;
(b) state whether the Protocol on privileges and immunities applies
and make reference to the general conditions applicable to the contract concerned ( supplies , works , services or publications ) and to any document containing conditions specifically applicable to the particular contract . < concerned ; '
(c) include a clause stating that the submission of a tender implies acceptance of the relevant conditions;
(d) specify the terms under which an inspection may be made, to be set out in detail in the case of on–the–spot inspections;
(e) specify the period during which a tender will remain valid and may not be varied in any respect; . ; ' •
(f) specify the penalties for failure to comply with the provisions of the contract;
(g) specify the details which must be contained in the invoices (or in the relevant supporting documents) in accordance with the provisions of Title VII;
(h) prohibit any contact, between the Institution and tenderers save, by way of special exception, under the following conditions:
1 . Before the closing date for the submission of tenders : – at the instance of tenderers :
additional information solely for the purpose of clarifying the nature of the call for tenders may be communicated to suppliers;
– at the instance of the Institution:
if the departments of the Institution notice an error, a lack of precision, an omission or any other type of material defect in the text of the call for tenders, they may, in a manner identical to that applicable in respect of the original call for tenders, inform the persons concerned accordingly;
2. After the tenders have been opened and at the instance of the departments of the Institution , if some clarification is required . in
connection with a tender, or if obvious material errors contained in the tender must be corrected, the Institution may contact the tenderer.
In every case mere contact nas been made under the conditions provided for above (Article 5° h), a "Note for the file" shall be drawn up ana such contact shall be mentioned in the report to be submitted subsequently to the Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts.
The general conditions applicable to the proposed contract shall be attached to the call for tenders . Any document containing conditions
specifically applicable to the particular contract concerned shall also be attached .
The deadline for the submission of tenders shall be fixed according to the nature of the contract, and shall be dependent .on the length of time necessary for the preparation of the reply to the call for tenders.
Tenderers may submit tenders: – either by post :
In this case the call for tenders must specify that the relevant date shall be that of postage, the post–mark to be conclusive evidence of such date. Tenders submitted by post must be registered.
– or by delivery in person "to the Institution:
In this case the call for tenders must state the date and time by which tenders must be submitted and specify the department to which they must be delivered against a signed and dated receipt.
The date must be the same in both cases.
In order to maintain secrecy and to avoid any difficulties, the call for tenders must include a provision as follows:
"Tenders must be submitted in a sealed envelope itself enclosed within
a second sealed envelope. The inner envelope shall bear, in addition to the name of the department to which it is addressed, as indicated in
the call for tenders, the words "Call for tenders – Not to be opened
by the registry". If self-adhesive envelopes are' used they shall be sealed with adhesive tape across which the sender shall place his - signature ."
Article 61 Every tender must be opened. '
Tenders which do not satisfy the conditions laid down in the call for tenders shall be eliminated.
All the tenderers shall be informed of the decision taken with regard to their tenders.
(Articles 54 and 94 of the Financial Regulation)
*lie Advisory Comiaittee 021 Procurements and Contracts shall be required to give its opinion, in an advisory capacity, in accordance with the provisions of Articles ^A, and of the Financial Regulation, on:
(a) all proposed contracts for works, supplies or services involving amounts exceeding those given in Articles 54 and ^4, of the Financial Regulation and
on proposed purchases of immovable property, irrespective of the amount involved ; ,
(b) any proposed agreement supplementary to any contract as referred to in (a) whenever the effect of such supplementary agreement would be to alter the amount involved in the original contract:
(c) any proposed supplementary agreement the effect which would be to raise the total amount involved in a contract already concluded to
an amount above the limits referred to in (a); .
(d) the standard forms and texts for calls for tenders and on any proposed texts involving an appreciable departure from such standard texts;
(e) proposed calls for tenders which are particularly important or are of a special nature; "
(f) questions arising at the time of conclusion or in the course of performance of - contracts ( e.g. cancellation of orders , requests for remission of penalties for delay, departures from the specifications and general conditions of contract ), should the matter be sufficiently serious to justify a request for an opinion;
(g) at the request of the competent Authorizing Officer or of a member
of the Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts, proposed contracts involving an amount below the limits referred to in (a), where he considers
that such contracts involve questions of principle or are of a special nature . - ,
The Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts shall make:
(a) recommendations with regard to the general supply policy both within and outside the Community and shall carry out, or have carried out, such investigations and studies' as may be necessary; - »
(b) recommendations with regard to general conditions for procurements and contracts .
The files submitted to the Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts for an opinion shall be accompanied by a report drawn up and presented
by the competent official or by an alternate designated by the
Every case shall be the subject of an opinion, which shall be signed by the Chairfnan. • Such opinions shall be communicated to the departments concerned. i
Every Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts shall draw up its
own rules of procedure, which shall be communicated to the Advisory Committees on Procurements and Contracts of the other Institutions.
(Article 56 of the Financial Regulation)
When, by way of guarantee of performance of contracts, the supplier or contractor is required, to provide a preliminary deposit', stich deposit must,
in principlej consist of a payment made to the Institution in the same currency as that prescribed for the payment to be made for the supplies or works .
This deposit may be replaced by a joint and several personal guarantee given by a third party approved by the Institution.
The usual supporting documents accompanying the first order to pay drawn up pursuant to a contract requiring the provision of a deposit shall be supplemented by a copy, certified true by the Accounting Officer, of the receipt issued when the deposit was paid, or by a copy, certified true by the Accounting Officer , of a declaration from the -establishment or third party providing the guarantee .
Deposits shall be repaid, or the guarantees given in place thereof released, in accordance with the provisions relating to the conclusion of contracts, except in cases of non-performance or late performance as referred to in the final paragraph of Article 56 of the Financial Regulation.
(Article 59 of the Financial Regulation) Article 72
Entries must "be made in the inventory for all movable property.:
– with a purchase price of at least 60 European Units of Account
(250 European Units of Account in t^e case of movable property of a scientific or technical nature ), and.
– of which the normal useful life exceeds one year (two y^ars in the case of movable property of a scientific or technical nature ), and
– which is not a consumer good.
ADVERTISEMENT OF SALES OF MOVABLE PROPERTY (Article 60 of the Financial Regulation)
Article 73 The sale of movable property shall be:
(a) suitably advertised locally if the unit purchase price was at least 4 000 European Units of Account ;
(b) advertised by a notice of sale published in the Official Journal
of the European Communities if the unit purchase price was at least 200 000 European Units of Account. Such sales may also be suitably advertised in the press of the Member States.
Advertisements in the press shall not be necessary if, in view of the cost involved.- no particular benefit would be gained.
Defined in the context of the Joint Research Centre in the • Recueil des instructions relatives aux inventaires'
(Doc. 13.13l/XV/68-F) and the •Nomenclature des matériels
(Article 66 of the Financial Regulation) Article 74
Drawin/g-up of the chart of accounts
The chart of accounts shall he divided into two separate parts :
1. The budget accounts shall show, for every subdivision of the Budget:
- the entitlements established and amounts received in respect of the financial year in question;
– the commitments and payments in respect of the financial year in question
2. Separateaccountsshallbeopenedsothattheuse'ofappropriations' carried over, and the collection of the amounts outstanding can be recorded separately .
3. Theaccountsmaybeitemizedinordertoprovideabasisforanalytical results .
4« Theaccountsshallbekeptinbooks,ororifilecards,orbymeansof a data-processing system.
1. Thegeneralaccountsshallenablethesituationinrespectofthe Institution1s assets and liabilities to be ascertained.
2. Thechartofaccountstobeusedforthegeneralaccountsshallbe drawn up on the basis of a decimal classification system.
 3. Thefollowingclassesofaccount,atleasx,shallbekept:
Fixed asset accounts,
Accounts with third parties , ' Financial accounts,
Outturn accounts .
4. Eachof. theseclassesofaccountshallcomprisegroups(witha-two-digit code) which, in their turn, shall be subdivided into subgroups (with a three-digit code), and the latter shall be divided into accounts (with a five–digit code). ' ,
5« Class 4 'Accounts with third parties' shall record all operations with third parties and adjustment accounts.
Class 4 shall comprise the following principal groups :
– advances to staff,
– accounts- between Institutions,
– sundry debtors and creditors,
– funds to be transferred,
– revenue and expenditure to be booked,
– suspense accounts for rc--ug'c.
– departments with separate accounts (sickness fund),
– suspense accounts for transfers of scientific ana technical equipment
between research and investment objectives.
6. Class 5 'Financial accounts' shall indicate thetransactionsin securities, cash office, bank and post office giro transactions, and transactions carried out by the Assistant Accounting Officers and the Imprest Administrators .
Class 5 shall comprise the following principeal groups :
- shares and securities on deposit, - casn offices,
7. Class6"Expenditureaccounts"shallrecordthegrossamountsofitemsof expenditure entered in the budget_accounts•
Separate accounts shall be opened for expenditure relating to :
- appropriations for the current financial year,
- appropriations carried over pursuant to Article 6(l)(b ) of the
– appropriations carried over prusuant to Article 6(l)(c) of the
– commitment appropriations outstanding pursuant to Article 6(2)(a)
- of the Financial Regulation,
– payment appropriations carried over pursuant to Article 6(2)(b)
of the Financial Regulation.
8. Class 7 -Tlncorae accounts' shall indicate the gross amounts of established entitlements entered in the budget accounts.
Separate accounts shall be opened for entitlements established:
– in the course of the current financial year,
– still outstanding from previous financial years.. . ..
9. Class 8 'Outturn accounts'' shall show the outturn of the financial year:
– amounts outstanding or received in excess,
– debtor and . creditor Member States , , – surplus for the financial year.
10. Each Institution shall draw up a chart of_accounts along the lines set- out above . It shall create groups , subgroups and individual accounts depending on its particular needs.
Functioning of the chart of accounts
1 . The general accounts shall be kept for each -calendar year using the double entry method. ,
2. The accounts shall be kept in books, or on file cards, or by means of a data-processing system.
3. The accounts shall enable the general balance of the accounts to be established, i.e., the statement of all the Institution's assets and liabilities accounts , including the balanced accounts with , in each case :
- total credits , - balance .
4* The accounts shall be kept in such a way as to enable a detailed analysis of the balances of accounts with third parties to be made.
5. ThecurrentaccountsoftheotherInstitutionsshallbesettledperiodically.
6. Thesuspenseaccountsshallbekeptunderconstantreviewandshallbe settled as soon as possible , and at any event within the period specified in Article 6^ of the Financial Regulation.
7. Thesuspense"accountsforre-useshallbetomakeitpossibletomonitor re-use of the types of income specified in Article 22(2 ) of the Financial
Regulation and to enable the statement provided for at the end of Article 730 ) and (3) to be drawn up.
8. Thefinancial(bankandpostofficegiro)accountsshallbekeptin national currencies and in the currency in which the accounts as a whole are kept•
9. The accounts of the Joint Research Centre shall be included in the Commission's general accounts.
(Article 70 of the Financial Regulation)
The Accounting Offier shall be appointed by each Institution from officials of categories A or B who are nationals of the Member States .
Assistant Accounting Officers shaH be appointed by each Institution from officials of categories A, B or C who are nationals of the Member States.
Imprest Administrators shall be chosen from officials of categories A, B and C, or, should the need arise , from other staff having a status equivalent to those categories . - * .
The Accounting Officer, Assistant Accounting Officers, and Imprest Administrators shall insure themselves, through the Institution, against the financial risks inherent in their' duties .
The premiums for this insurance shallbe paid directly to the insurer by the Institution .
With'out préjudice to:
- Articles 86 to 89 of"the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European
Communities and the conditions of employment of oiner servants of the , Communities ,-
- Article 22. Financial Regulation applicable to the General Budget of the European Communities ,
- the Institution 's right of recovery vis-&-vis third parties ,
the Institution shall bear all risks and deficits not covered by the insurers, in so far as the amounts credited to the gurantee account opened in the name
of the official whose liability is involved are not sufficient to cover the deficit .
The monthly amount of the special allowance referred to in Article 70 Financial Regulation shall be :
– 120 European Units of Account for the Accounting Officer,
– 80 European Units of Account for Assistant Accounting Officer,
– 40 European Units of Account for Imprest Administrators, where the amount of the imprest is at least 1 000 European Units of Account and where
the period of the imprest is. at least 30 consecutive days.
A guarantee account in the name of each entitled person shall be opened xn
the Institution 's non-budget accounting system . This account shall be credited •periodically with the monthly allowa-noe referred to .in Article 82 and interest calculated on the basis of the interest vrttich. the Institution receives on its bank assets. It shall be debited by the. amount of the deficit for which the person concerned is declared liable by the Institution which appointed him,
in so far as the deficit, is not covered by payments from the insurers.
When an Accounting Officer, Assistant Accounting Officer or Imprest Administrator terminates his duties , any balance standing to his credit in
the guarantee account shall be paid to him or to those entitled through him, after a decision has been taken by the authorities referred to in Article 18
of the Financial Regulation and the final discharge referred to in Article
of the Financial Regulation has been granted, and after the Accounting Officer,
save where he himself is concerned, and the Financial Controller have given a favourable opinion.
Such payment shall be made exclusively on the instructions , in writing , of the head of the Directorate-General or administrative unit to which the
Accounting Officer is assigned. .
(Article 108(7) of the Financial Regulation) Article 85 (New Article)
Pending the entry into force of the Council Regulation on the procedure
for arriving the European Unit of Account to^the legal acts adopted by the Tnstitr.tions. of the European Communities-*-. revenue and expenditure
shall "be entered in the accounts in European Units of Account. Conversion between European Units of Account and national currencies shall be on the basis of the monthly rates.
The monthly rates shall be determined for each crurrency on tng oasis of the rates for the European Unit of Account on the penultimate working dav of the month preceding that for which the rates are established. saving the special provisions for payments of own resources and
VAT twelfths. 'The conversion rates for the currencies of certain third countries are at present calculated in relation to their quotation on the London Stock Exchange on the Monday immediately preceding or coinciding with the day adopted for determining the monthly rate.
By way of derogation from the provisions of Article 86, the rate to be used for "the month "n" in the case of expenditure financed by the Guarantee Section of the EAGGP, and food aid expenditure which is the subject of advances shall be the twelfth day of the month "n" - 2 or the first preceding day for which a general quotation is available.
The differences in national currency between the financial resources made available to the Member States for a given month and the expenditure entered in the accounts for the same month shall be reconverted into
EUA at the rates for the following month.
The differences referred to in Article 99 of the Financial Regulation shall be entered in the accounts at the rate for expenditure of the
month during which the decisions concerning the clearance of accounts are adopted.
The amount m European Units of Account of a claim denominated in a national currency shall be modified on the basis of the exchange rate in force in the month in which the sum due is recovered. In the event of recovery by instalments, this modification shall not concern the
part recovered earlier. The established entitlements outstanding may be periodically reassessed , the final reassessment for the financial year being made at the December r.*vfce.
Commission proposal of 4 October 197° (COM(76)513 final).
YRHFRF; COTTTTI tment r-roro ^" i n and claim establishments are drawn up in a national currency, they shall be converted, into European Units of Account at the rate in force in the month of entry in the accounts,
ThP ffnrrsspnn^in^ parent order and the recovery order must be drawn up. in the same currency .
The balance of a commitment and a Claim establishment in a national currency shall be reassessed each time a payment is m&ae, or a sum
due is collected, at the monthly rate used for the payment m question.
In addition, the balances in question may be reassessed periodically, the final reassessment for the financial year being made at tne December rate .
The December rates of the European Unit -of Account shall "be used to calculate the commitments outstanding at the end of the financial year and , in t he case of non-differentiated appropriations , to determine tne appropriations to De carried over .
Payments made in respect of a given financial year between the first and fifteenth day of January of the following year shall be entered in the accounts , for budget purposes , at the December rate of the European Unit of Account .
In the case of non-differentiated appropriations, commitments -outstanding shall be settled in respect of the amounts carried over in national currencies or in European Units of Account ; payments shall be entered in the accounts at the monthly rates in force at the times of payment. However, the amount of the appropriations carried over expressed in
European Units of Account shall have binding force in respect of each particular budget item ; payments against commitments still ta be settled shall be charged, against the current year's appropriations for the
budget item in cruestion if the appropriations carried over in respect
of that budget item are exhausted .
In the case of differentiated appropriations , the adjustments of commitments outstanding from earlier years worked out at the time of payment or periodical reassessments shall give rise to the booking of positive or negative appropriations outstanding , as appropriate , as long as such adjustments are made within two years of the year of origin.
The amounts specified in Articles 45, 72, 73 and 82 shall be adjusted in accordance with variations in the Belgian consumer price index, the index for reference being that, of December 1980 ( 100 ), every
time that the size of the variation reaches:
- 50% in the case of the amounts specified in Articles 45t 72 and 73,
- 10$ in the case of the amounts specified in Article 82.
The Commission shall determine the new amounts, rounded off to the nearest Unit of Account above or below, and shall communicate them to the other Institutions .
The detailed rules above shall not affect the application of the
special provisions of the Financial Regulation relating to research and investment appropriations ( Title VII of the Financial Regulation ),
the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and
Guarantee Fund ( Title VIII of the Financial Regulation ), food aid
(Title IX of the Financial Regulation ; and the Official Publications Office of the Etiropean Communities (Title X of the Financial Regulation).
Within six months of the date of entry into force of this Regulation, the Institutions shall inform the Court of Auditors of the provisions that they have adopted in order to apply it.
These detailed rules for the implementation of the Financial Regulation shall take effect on
For the Commission The President.
