In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
Volumes annuels
Irland 5 Italien 23
Description of goods
Man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste ) carded , combed or other­ wise prepared for spinning
Men's and boys' outer garments -"*'1-i -- iiii-1 --
1. The Agreement establishing an Association between the Europeasi Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus,, together with .
the Transitional Protocol and the Additional Protocol to this Agreement, completed by the Protocol of Adaptation to take account of the accession of Greece to the Community, provides for the opening of the following annual duty-free Community tariff quotas for products originating in Cyprus :
2 . The provisions of the Additional Protocol and the Transitional Protocol to the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus will
lapse on 31 December 1980. Pending the entry into force of a new protocol it is necessary to extend the arrangements that the Community applies to trade with the Republic of Cyprus within the context of the Association with that country."
In order to fulfil the Community 's intentions to Cyprus in 1981 regulations should be adopted opening/ allocating and providing for the sdmini stration . of these Community tariff quotas * , .
> 100 metric ions i
525 metric tons. ,j
 The regulations provide, as is the rule, for each of the quotas to • be divided into two instalments, the first of which is allocated •
i among the Member States while the . second constitute the reserve .*, > . ; ..■■
; The allocation of the first instalment is usually based on the v*.
v ■ statistics for the previous three years and the forecasts for the .s
;. be applied to the products in question . For , during the past three ; years, these were no imports of man-made fibres falling within' tariff
heading No 56.04 and the«imports of outer garments falling w1tMnv.';\^'
tariff heading No 61.01 were insignificant. In this situation it seems also very difficult to draw up forecasts for 1981 / ^
To allocate the quotas in question nevertheless equitably among Member States, it appears desirable to provide for a significant share of the quota amount for each of the Member States . Obviously, this formula will have to be adapted subsequently
in the light of actual trade movements .
This is the purpose of the Proposals annexed hereto,
Annexes ; 2 proposals of Regulations of the Council ,
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for certain textile fibres, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the provisions of the Additional Protocol ( 1 ) and the Transitional Protocol (2) to the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus (3) will lapse on 31 December 1981;
Whereas pending the entry into force of a new Protocol it is necessary to extend the arrangements that , the Community applies to trade with the Republic of
Cyprus within the context of the Association with
that country;
Whereas the abovementioned Additional Protocol , completed by the Protocol of Adaptation to take account of the accession of the Hellenic Republic to the Community (4), provides for the
opening of an annual duty-free Community tariff quota of 100 tonnes of man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise prepared for spinning, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus;
 Whereas it is in particular necessary to ensure for all Community importers equal and uninterrupted access to the abovementioned quota and uninterrupted application of the rates laid down for that quota to all imports of the products concerned into all Member States until the quota has been used up; whereas, having regard to the above principles, the Community nature of the quota can be respected by allocating the Community tariff quota among the Member Srates; whereas, in order to reflect as accurately as possible the true trend of the market in the products in question, such allocation should be in proportion to the requirements of the Member States, calculated by reference to the statistics of imports of the goods in question from Cyprus over a representative reference
period and also to the economic outlook for the quota period concerned;
Whereas, however, during the past three years no such products originating in Cyprus have been imported into the Community; whereas no forecast can be made for 198 1; whereas to ensure fair distribution of the quota amount between the Member States each Member State should make a significant contribution to the quota amount ; whereas such contributions may approxi­ mately correspond to the following percentages:
Ireland i 7% Italy • 16%
Whereas, in order to take into account import trends for the products concerned in the various Member States, the quota volume should be divided into two instalments, the first being jhared among the Member States and the second constituting a reserve to cover at a later date the requirements of the Member States which have used up their initial quota shares; whereas, in order to give importers in each Member State a certain degree of security, the first instalment of the Community quota should, under the present circumstances, be fixed at 60 % of the quota volume;
 Whereas the Member States' initial shares may be used
up at different times; whereas, in order to take this fact into account and avoid any break in continuity, any Member State which has almost used up its initial share should draw an additional share from the reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member Stare as and when each of its additional shares is almost used up, and repeated as many times as the reserve allows; whereas the initial and additional shares must be valid
until the end of the quota period; whereas this method of administration requires close cooperation between the Membc. States and tr.^ Commission, and the latter must be in a position to monitor the extent to which the quota volume has been used up and to inform the Member States thereof;
Whereas if, at a given date in the quota period, a substantial quantity remains unused in any Member State, it is essential that that Member State should return a significant proportion to the reserve, to prevent a part of any tariff quota from remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others;
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any operation relating to the administration of the quota shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any of its members,
From 1 / to 31 December 1981, the Common Customs Tariff duties in respect of man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise prepared for spinning, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus, shall be entirely suspended within the limits of a Community tariff quota oflOQonnes.
Within the limits of this tariff quota, Greece shall apply duties calculated in accordance with the relevant provisions in the Act of Accession and the Protocol of Adaptation .
1. The Community tariff quota referred to in Article 1
shall be divided into two instalments. *
2. A first instalment amounting to 60 tonnes shall be allocated among the Member States; the shares, which subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December
198 1, shall be as follows:
Germany France Ireland
The second instalment of 40 tonnes shall constitute
the reserve.
1. If 90 % or more of a Member State's initial share as specified in Article 2 (2), or 90 % of that share minus
the portion returned to the reserve where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, then, to the extent permitted by the amount of the reserve, that Member State shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share equal to 15 % of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
2. If, after its initial share has been used up, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has
been used up, then that Member State shall , in accordance with the conditions laid down in
paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5 % of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
3. If, after its second share has been used up, 90 % or more of the third share drav/n by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall continue until the reserve is used up.
 4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that they might not be used up. It shall inform the Commission of its reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article
3 shall be valid until 31 December 198 1.
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later
than 1 October 1981, such unused portion of their
initial shares as, on 15 September 1981 , is in excess of
20 % of the initial volume. They may return a larger
quantity if there are grounds for believing that it may not be used.
The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 198 1 notify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 September 198 1 and charged against the tariff quota, and of any quantity of the initial shares returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and
 3 and shall, as soon as it is notified, inform each Member State of the extent to which the reserve has been used up as soon as it receives the notifications.
It shall inform the Member States, not later than
5 October 1 98 *], of the amount in the reserve after
quantities have been returned thereto pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which exhausts the reserve does not exceed /the balance
available, and to this end, shall notify the amount of the balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
1. The Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their accumulated share of the Community quota.
2. The Member States shall ensure that importers of the products in question established in their territory have free access to the shares allocated to them.
3. The Member States shall charge imports of the products in question against their share as and when the goods are entered with customs authorities for free circulation .
4. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraph 3 .
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely in order to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at Brussels,
For the Council The President
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1
January 1981 •
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for men's and boys' outer garments, falling within heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs
Tariff and originating in Cyprus ».•
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the provisions of the Additional
and the Transitional Protocol ( 2 ) to the establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus <3) will lapse on 31 December 1981;
Whereas pending the entry into force of a new Protocol it is necessary to extpnd the arrangements that the Community applies to trade with the Republic of
Cyprus within the context of the Association with
that country ;
Whereas the abovementioned Additional Protocol , conpleted by the Protocol of Adaptation to take account of the accession of the Hellenic Republic to the Community (•.), provides for the
of an annual duty-free Community tariff quota ot 525 tonnes of men's and boys' outer garments, falling within heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus:
 Whereas it is in particular necessary to ensure for all Community importers equal and uninterrupted access to the abovementioned quota and uninterrupted application of the rates laid down for that quota to all imports of the products concerned into all Member States until the quota has been used up; whereas, having regard to the above principles, the Community nature of the quota can be respected by allocating " the Community tariff quota among the Member States; whereas, in order to reflect as accurately as possible the true trend of the market in the products in question, such allocation should be in proportion to the requirements of, the Member States, calculated by reference to the statistics of imports of the said goods from Cyprus over a representative reference period and the economic outlook for the quota period concerned;
Whereas, however, during the past three years the imports have been irregular and insignificant ; whereas no forecast can be
made for 198 "); whereas to ensure fair distribution of the quota amount between the Member States each Member State should make a significant contribution to the quota amount; whereas such contributions may approximately correspond to the following percentages:
Italy 9% United Kingdom 48%
Whereas, in order to take into account import trends for the products concerned in the various Member States, the quota volume should be divided into two instalments, the first being chared among the Member States and the second constituting a reserve to cover at a later date the requirements of the Member States which have used up their initial quota shares; whereas, in order to give importers in each Member State a certain degree of security, the first instalment of the Community quota, should, under present circumstances, be fixed at 50 % of the quota volume;
Whereas the Member States' initial shares may be used up at different times; whereas, in order to take this fact into account and avoid any break in continuity, any Member State which has almost used up its initial share should draw an additional share from the reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional shares is almost used up, and repeated as many times as the reserve allows; whereas the initial and additional shares must be valid until the end of the quota period; whereas this method of administration requires close cooperation between Member States and the Commission and the latter must ' be in a position to monitor the extent to which the
15 % rrance "LOVo Ireland 2 %
 quota volume has been used up and to inform the Member States thereof;
Whereas if, at a given date in the quota period, a substantial quantity remains unused in any Member State, it is essential that that Member State, should return a significant proportion to the reserve, to prevent a part of any tariff quota from remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others;
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom* of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any operation relating to the administration of the quota shares granted to that economic union may be carried out -by any of its members,
From 1 / to 31 December 1981, the Common Customs Tariff duty in respect of men's and boys' outer garments falling withing heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus, shall be entirely suspended within the limits of a Community tariff quota of 525corines.
Within the limits of this tariff quota, Greece shall apply duties calculated in accordance with the relevant provisions in the Act of Accession and the Protocol of Adaptation .
1. The Community tariff quota referred to in Article 1 shall be divided into two instalments.
2. A first instalment amounting to 260 tonnes shall be allocated among the Member States; the shares, which subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December 1981, shall be as follows:
Italy ,
 3. The second instalment of265 tonnes shall constitute the reserve.
1. If 90 % or more of a Member State's initial share as specified in Article 2 (2) , or 90 % of that share minus the portion returned to the reserve where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, then to the extent permitted by the amount of the reserve, that Member
State shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share equal to 15 % of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
2. If, after its initial share has been used up, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has been used up , then that Member State shall , in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5 % of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
3. If, after its second share has been used up, 90 % or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall continue until the reserve is used up.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that they might not be used up . It shall inform the Commission of its reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1981.
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 October 198 1 such unused portion of their initial share as, on 15 September 198 1 is in excess of 20 % of the initial volume. They may return a larger
quantity if there are grounds for believing that it may not be used.
 The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 1981, notify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 September 1981 and charged against the tariff quota, and of any quantity of the initial shares returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and 3 and shall , as soon as it is notified , inform each Member State of the extent to which the reserve has been used up as soon as it receives the notifications.
It shall inform the Member States, not later than 5 October 1981, of the amount in the reserve after quantities have been returned thereto pursuant to Article 5. - " - y \
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which exhausts the reserve does not exceed the balance
available, and to this end, shall notify the amount of the balance to the Member State making the last drawing
1. The Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their accumulated share of the Community quota.
2. The Member States shall ensure that importers of the products in question established in their territory have free access to the share allocated to them.
3. The Member States shall charge imports of the products in question against their share as and when the
goods are entered with customs authorities for free circulation .
4. The extent to which a Member State used up its share .shall he determined on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraph 3.
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
This Regulation Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 193'1 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at Brussels,
For the Council The President
Irland '- 2
7 Duitsland 15
/to the Council)^ H\
(presented by the Commission/ to the . Councils
The Agreement establishing an Association between the European
Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus, together with ... :
the Transitional Protocol and the Additional Protocol to this'
Agreement, completed by the Protocol of Adaptation to take account . of the accession of Greece to the Community/ provides for the
opening of the following annual duty-free Community tariff quotas for products originating in Cyprus ,s .
Description of goods .
Man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste) carded, combed or other- ; wise . prepared for spinning
Men's and boys' outer garments
2, The provisions of the Additional Protocol and the Transitional Protocol to the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus will'
lapse on 31 December 1980. Pending the entry into force of a new protocol it is necessary to extend the arrangements that the Community applies to trade with the Republic of Cyprus within the context of the Association with that country.
In order to fulfil' the Community's intentions to Cyprus^ in 1981 * regulations should be adopted opening, allocating and providing , for the administration. of these Community' tariff quotas* . ,
100 metric - tons V
525 metric tons.
 ;.The regulations provide, as is the rule/for each of the quotas t6'. ,; 'be divided into two instalments, the first of which is allocated V* • ' \ among the Member States while the . second constitute the reserve **/ ■
i The allocation of the first instalment is usually based on the • v r *.
^ statistics for the previous three years and the forecasts for * the » ; quota period concerned. However, in this case, this principle cannot be applied to the products in question . For , during the past three ," years, these ware no imports of man-made fi.bres falling within' tariff
' heading No 56*04 and theHmports 6f outer garments falling w1th1nv.' v',^
tariff heading No 61.01 were insignificant. In this situation ,«
■ seems also Very difficult- rto 'draw up forecasts for "1981
To allocate the quotas in question nevertheless equitably among Member States, it appears desirable to provide for a significant share of the quota amount for each of the Member States . Obviously, this formula will have to be adapted subsequently
in the light of actual trade movements .
This is the purpose of the Proposals annexed hereto,
Annexes S 2 proposals of Regulations of the Council ,
 Proposa l for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) .
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for certain textile fibres, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the provisions of the Additional
and the Transitional Protocol (2) to the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus (3) will lapse on 31 December 198 ;
Whereas pending, the entry into force of a new Protocol it is necessary to extend the arrangements that the Community applies to trade with the Republic of
Cyprus under of the Association with
that country;
Whereas the abovementioned Additional Protocol , supplemented by the Protocol of Adaptation to take account of the accession of the Hellenic Republic to the Community (4), provides for the
opening of art annual duty-free Community tariff quota of 100 tonnes of man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise prepared for spinning, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus;
 Whereas it is in particular necessary to ensure for all Community importers equal and uninterrupted access to the abovcmcntioncd quota and uninterrupted application of the rates laid down for that quota to all imports of the products concerned into all Member States until the quota has been used up; whereas, having regard to the above principles, the Community nature of the quota can be respected by allocating the Community tariff quota among the Member States; whereas, in order to reflect as accurately as possible the true trend of the market in the products in question, such , allocation should be in proportion to the requirements of the Member States , calculated by reference to the statistics of imports of the goods in question from Cyprus over a representative reference
period and also to the economic outlook for the quota period concerned;
Whereas, however, during the past three years no such products originating in Cyprus have been imported into the Community; whereas no forecast can be made for 1981; whereas to ensure fair distribution of the quota amount between the Member States each Member State should make a significant contribution to the quota amount ; whereas such contributions may approxi­ mately correspond to the following percentages:
Whereas, in order to take into account import trends for the products concerned in the various Member States, the quota volume should be divided into two instalments, the first being shared among the Member States and the second constituting a reserve to cover at a later date the requirements of the Member.States which have used up their initial quota shares; whereas, in order to give importers in each Member State a certain degree of security, the first instalment of the Community quota should, under the present circumstances, be fixed at 60 % of the quota volume;
 Whereas the Member States* initial shares may be used
up at different times; whereas, in order to take this fact into account and avoid any break in continuity, any Member State which has almost used up its initial share should draw an additional .share from the reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and
when each of its additional shares is almost used up,
and repeated as many times as the reserve allows; whereas the initial and additional shares must be valid until the end of the quota period; whereas this method of administration requires close cooperation between the Mcmb*.. States and tr«. Commission, and the latter must 'be in a position to monitor the extent to which the quota volume has been used up and to inform the Member States thereof;
Whereas if, at a given date in the quota period, a substantial quantity remains unused in any Member State, it is essential that that Member State should return a significant proportion to the reserve, to prevent a part of any tariff quota from remaining unused in one
Member State when it could be used in others;
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the. Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any operation relating to the administration of the quota shares allocated to that! economic union may be carried out by any of its members, j
From 1 / to 31 December 1981, the Common Customs Tariff duties in respect of man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise prepared for spinning, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus, shall be entirely suspended within the limits of a Community tariff quota of10Qonnes.
Within the limits of this tariff quota/ Greece shall apply duties calculated in accordance with the relevant provisions in the Act of Accession and the Protocol of Adaptation .
1. The Community tariff quota referred to in Article 1 shall be divided into two instalments.
2. A first instalment amounting to 60 tonnes shall be allocated among the Member States; the shares, which subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December
198 1 shall be as follows:
3. The second instalment of 40tonnes shall constitute the reserve.
1. If 90 % or more of a Member State's initial share as specified in Article 2 (2), or 90 % of that share minus
the portion returned to the reserve where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, then, to the extent permitted by the amount of the reserve, that Member State shall forthwith , by notifying the Commission , draw a second share equal to 15 % of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
2. If, after its initial share has been used up, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has
been used up , then that Member State shall , in accordance with the conditions laid down in
paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5 % of its. initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
3. If, after its second share has been used up, 90 % or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall continue until the reserve is used up.
 4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that they might not be used up. It shall inform the Commission of its reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1981.
The Member States shall return to the reserve,-not later than 1 October 1981, such unused portion of their „ initial shares as, on 15 September 1981 > is in excess of 20 % of the initial volume. They may return a larger quantity if there are grounds for believing that it may not be used.
The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 198 1 notify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 September 198 1 and charged against the tariff quota, and of any quantity of the initial shares returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and
 3 and shall , as soon as it is notified , inform each Member State of the extent to which the reserve has
been used up .
It shall inform the Member States, not later than 5 October 198 of the amount in the reserve after
quantities have been returned thereto pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which exhausts the reserve does not exceed the balance
available, and to this end, shall notify the amount of the balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
1. The Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their accumulated share of the Community quota.
2. The Member States shall ensure that importers of the products in question established in their territory have free access to the shares allocated to them. -
3. The Member States shall charge imports of the products in question against their share as and when the goods are entered with customs authorities for free circulation .
4. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined On the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraph 3 .
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely in order to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at Brussels.
For the Council The President
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1
January 1981
 Proposal for a " COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for men's and boys' outer garments, falling within heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs
' Tariff and originating in Cyprus 71 ;E COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof, *
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, ,
Whereas the provisions of the Additional
and the Transitional Protocol (2) to ; the Agreement . establishing an Association between the European Economic Community andthe Republic of Cyprus (3) will lapse on 31 December 1980 ;
Whereas pending the entry into force of a new Protocol it is necessary to extend the arrangements that the
' Community applies to trade with the Republic of
Cyprus ," under " the Association with • that country; ! '
, Whereas the abovementioned Additional Protocol supplemented by the Protocol of Adaptation to take account of the j
accession of the Hellenic Republic to the Community U), j
provides for the opeftiftty-
of an annual duty-free Community tariff quota or '525''""'. tonnes of men's and boys' outer garments, falling within ' heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus:
 Whereas it is in particular necessary to ensure for all Community importers equal and uninterrupted access to the abovemcntioned quota and uninterrupted application of the rates laid down for that quota to all imports of the products concerned into all Member States until the quota has been used up; whereas, having regard to the above principles, the Community nature of the quota can be respected by allocating the Community tariff quota among the Member States; whereas, in order to reflect as accurately as possible the true trend of the market in the products in question, such allocation should be in proportion to the requirements o^ the Member States, calculated by reference to the statistics of imports of the said goods from Cyprus ovena representative reference period and the economic outlook for the quota period concerned;
Whereas , however , over the past three years ' imports have been irregular and insignificant ; whereas no forecast can be
made for 198 \ whereas to ensure fair distribution of the quota amount between the Member States each Member State should make a significant contribution to the quota amount; whereas such contributions may approximately correspond to the following percentages:
Italy 9% United Kingdom 48%
Whereas, in order to take into account import trends for the products concerned in the various Member States, the quota volume should be divided into two instalments, the first being shared among the Member States and the second constituting a reserve to cover at a later date the requirements of the Member States which have used up their initial quota shares? whereas, in order to give importers in each Member State a certain degree of security, the first instalment of the Community quota, should, under present circumstances, be fixed at 50 % of the quota volume;
Whereas the Member e.
Up at different times; whertCr^ , into account and avoid any brcak7^.r<-sJT}ay
Member State which has almost used up its initial share should draw an additional share from the reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional shares is almost used up, and repeated as many times as the reserve allows; whereas the initial and additional shares must be valid
until the end of the quota period^ whereas this method of administration requires close cooperation between Member States and the Commission and the latter must be in a position to monitor the extent to which the
 quota volume has been used up and to inform the Member States thereof;
Whereas if, at a given date in the quota period, a substantial quantity remains unused in any Member State, it is essential that that Member State should
return a significant proportion to the reserve, to prevent j a part of any tariff quota from remaining unused in one - Member State when it could be used in others;
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom
of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of •Luxembourg are united in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any operation relating to the administration of the quota shares granted to that economic union may be carried out by any of its
From 1 / to 31 December 1981, the Common Customs Tariff duty in respect of men's and boys' , outer garments falling withing heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus, shall be entirely suspended within the limits of a . Community tariff quota of 5 25tonnes.
Within the limits of this tariff quota, Greece shall
apply duties calculated in accordance with the relevant " provisions in the Act of Accession and the Protocol of :
1. The Community tariff quota referred to in Article 1 shall be divided into two instalments.
2. A first instalment amounting to 260 tonnes shall be allocated among the Member States; the shares, which subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December 1981, shall be as follows:
rrance Ireland
Kaly ,
 3. The second instalment of265 tonnes shall constitute the reserve.
1. If 90 % or more of a Member State's initial share as specified in Article 2 (2) , or 90 % of that share minus the portion returned to the reserve where Article 5 has been applied, has been used. up, then to the extent^ permitted by the amount of the reserve, that Member State shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share equal to 15 % of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
2. If, after its initial share has been used up, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has been used up , then that Member State shall , in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5 % of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
3. If, after its second share has been used up, 90 % or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used .up, that Member State shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall continue until the reserve is used up.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that they might not be used up. It shall inform the Commission of its reasons for applying this paragraph. '
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1981.
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 October 198 1 such unused portion of their initial share as, on 15 September 1981 is in excess of 20 % of the initial volume. They may return a larger
quantity if there are grounds for believing that it may not be used.
 The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 1981, notify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 September 1981 and charged against the tariff quota, and of any
quantity of the initial shares returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep an . account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and 3 and shall , as soon as it is notified , inform each Member State of the extent to,which the reserve has been used up. '
It shall inform the Member States, not later than
5 October 1981, of the amount in the reserve after
quantities have been returned thereto pursuant to Article 5. **•'"•
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which exhausts the reserve does not exceed the balance
available, and to this end, shall notify the amount of the balance to the Member State making the last drawing
1. The Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their accumulated share of the Community quota.
2. The Member States shall ensure that importers of the products in question established in their territory have free access to the share allocated to them.
3. The Member States shall charge imports of the
products in question against their share as and when the t..'-,
goods arc entered with customs authorities for free circulation.
4. The extent to which a Member State used up its share shall he determined on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraph 3. -
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council The President
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
This Regulation „
1 January 1981
shall enter into force on
yérsS;enland . Frankrig
Irland '. 7 Italien. . ' 16
_ Grakenland Frankrig
Irland ■
P^ r^Kenland rrankrig
10 Irland 2 . Italien 9
land ydrâS:enland
Irland »
