In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
Propositions prix 81 / 82 Community spending on agriculture
– Régions administratives ONIC
- le froment, dur,
Prix d' achat ECU/100 ka net ECU/100 kg net
Prix d achat ECU/100 ko net
Prix d' achat ECU/100 kq net ECU/100 kg net
Prix d' achat ECU/100 kq net
Prix d achat ECU/100 kg net
Prix d' achat ECU/100 kg net . .
Prix- d' achat ECU/100 kg net
a) Round Tip a ) Round Tip
Maryland v
1er paragraphe 2.
British White (White Park)
Highland (Skotsk Heiilandskvaeg) Limousine '
d' achat à
land land
Maryland '*
a) Round Tip b) Scafati · c) Sumatra I
Braunvieh (Brunkvaeg) British White (White Park )
Shetland ,
Simmenthal
Simmenthal , .
--''s y
COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No / 81 of
fixing cereal prices for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2726/75 of 29 October 1975 on the common organization of the market in cereals (1), as last amended by
the Act of Accession thereof ,
Having regard to the Having regard to the Having regard to the
of Greece ( 2 ) , and in particular Articles 3(6 ) and 4 ,
proposal from the Commission,
opinion of the European Parliament (3),
opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas the market and prices policy, based on modern farms, is the main instrument of the incomes policy in agriculture; whereas full advantage cannot be drawn from such a policy unless it is integrated into the common agricultural policy as a whole, including a dynamic social and structural policy and the application of the rules on competition contained in the – Treaty; ' ,.'
Whereas the intervention prices and target prices for the principal cereals and the reference prices for common wheat of bread-making quality must be
fixed in such a way as to promote a balance between the different sections of production on the basis of actual market requirements; -
Whereas, in order to ensure the fluidity of the Community barley and maize markets, the ratio between the relative values of the two cereals concerned for use in animal feed should be adjusted;
Whereas, for the purposes of fixing the target price for common wheat, the reference price for this product is to be fixed at a level 'corresponding to the medium bread-making quality ; whereas , in calculating this price , account should be taken of the difference between the return on production of common wheat of medium bread-making quality and that of common wheat of nan-bread-making quality, which can at present be assessed at 1A56;
 Whereasthe intervention prices for durum wheat and rye and the reference price for common wheat applicable in Greece are to be fixed in accordance with the provisions of Article 59(3)(a) of the Act of Accession of Greece,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, cereal prices shall be those fixed in the Annex .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council
Reference price, minimum bread-making quality; - EEC of Nine
Single intervention price: - EEC or Nine
Single common intervention price: - EEC of Nine v
(1) This price is increased by 3.97 ECU/tonne (Article 3(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75)
X of y
fixing rice prices for the 1981/82 marketing *year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community , and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1418/76 of 21 June 1976 on the common organization of the market in rice (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece- (2), and in particular Article 3(3) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, .
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3), . ■%
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas the markets and prices policy, based on modern farms, is the main instrument of the incomes policy in agriculture; whereas full advantage cannot be drawn from such a policy unless it is integrated into the common agricultural policy as a whole, including a dynamic social and structural policy and the application of the rules on competition contained in the Treaty;
Whereas the intervention price for paddy rice must be fixed at a rate which takes simultaneous account of the policy in respect of rice production and the use of rice and of improved farm incomes;
Whereas the target price for husked rice should be derived from the intervention price for paddy rice, in accordance with the criteria set out in Article 4(3) of Regulation (EEC) No 1418/76;
 .Whereas the application of the criteria for the fixing of the different prices and the application of the measures provided for in respect of the exchange rates to be applied in agriculture entail fixing those prices at the levels indicated herein,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the rice prices shall be as follows:
This Regsjlation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 September 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council
fixing the monthly price increases for cereals, wheat arid rye flour and wheat groats and meal for the 1981/E2 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 of 29 October 1975 on the common organization of the market in cereals (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular Article 6(2) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas, when the number and amount of the monthly increases and the first month during which these are to apply are fixed, account should be taken of the storage costs and interest charges for storing cereals in the Community and of the need to ensure that the disposal of stocks of cereals conforms to market requirements,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the monthly increases to be applied to the target price, threshold price and intervention price for the products listed in Article 1(a), (b) and (c) of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 and to the. reference price for common wheat of bread-making quality, shall be as set out in this Regultion.
The monthly increases to be applied to the target price, threshold price
and intervention price for common wheat, rye, barley and maize and durum wheat and to the reference price for common wheat of bread-making quality, operative for the first month of the marketing year, shall be as follows:
Common wheat, rye, barley and maize Durum wheat --
January 1982
January 1982 February March
(ECU/tonne) Wheat, meslin and rye flour, common Groats and meal
The monthly increases indicated in brackets shall apply to neither the reference price for common wheat of bread-making quality nor intervention prices .
The monthly increases to be applied to the threshold price for meSlin,
oats, buckwheat, millet, canary seed and sorghum operative for the first 5 month of the marketing year shall be the same as those applicable to cereals other than durum wheat. -
The monthly increases to be applied to the threshold price for wheat,
meslin and rye flour and to the threshold price for groats and meal of common or of durum wheat operative for the first month of the marketing year shall be as follows: 1
wheat groats and meal
of durum wheat
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 August 1981^
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels, " ~ For the Council
fixing the monthly price increases for pgddy rice and husked rice ' for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1418/76 of 21 June 1976 on the
common organization of the market in rice (1), as last amended by the Act .
of Accession of Greece ( 2 ), and in particular Article 7(2 ) thereof , /
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas, when the number and amount of the monthly increases and the first month during which these increases are to apply are fixed, account should be taken of the costs of storage and financing rice in the Community and of the need to' ensure that the disposal of stocks of rice conforms to market requirements ,
For the 1980/ 81 marketing year , the amount of each of the monthly
increases provided for in Article 7(1) of Regulation (EEC) NO 1418/76 shall be as follows : -
- 2.77 ECU per tonne for the intervention price , - 3.46 ECU per tonne for the. target price.
These monthly increases shall apply from 1 October 1981 to 1 July 1982. The prices thus obtained for July 1982 shall remain valid until
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication
in the Official Journal of the European Communities. It shall apply from 1 September 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council
COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No / 81 / of
fixing a carry-over payment for common wheat, rye and maize remaining in stock at the end of the 1980/81 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 of 29 October 1975 on the common organization of the market in cereals (1), as last amended by the Act of Accesion of Greece (2), and in particular Article 9(1) and (5) thereof , •
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas one of the purposes of the carry-over payment provided for in
Article 9(1) of. Regulation (EEC) No'2727/75 is to prevent a massive inflow
to intervention of cereals, much of which could be directly disposed of on the market before the new harvest, at the moment when the monthly intervention price increases end; whereas the market situation for common wheat' throughout the Community and th§ situation for rye used for human consumption in certain regions of the Community are such that a carry-over payment should be granted for these cereals;
Whereas there is a likelihood in certain regions , of quantities of maize being offered for intervention although a deficit exists in the Community as a whole; whereas a carry-over payment should therefore also be given
for this cereal ; whereas ; since the marketing of a crop normally extends beyond the end of the marketing year , the granting of a carry-over payment helps to prevent the large quantities normally in stock at the end of the marketing year going to intervention during its last few months;
 Whereas the amount of the carry-over payment should be fixed by taking the difference between the single common intervention price applicable on
1 August 1980, increased by eleven monthly increases and converted into the national currency at the representative rate applicable on 31 July 1981, and the single common intervention price applicable on 1 August 1981; whereas , where the calculation gives a negative amount , the payment should be counted as nil;
Whereas the carry-over payment cannot be given for cereals harvested in the Community during 1981, as their cost has not been increased by any storage element ; whereas , in view of the connection between the intervention and the carry-over payment systems, carry-over payments should be given only for cereals which are of sound and fair merchantable quality, within the meaning of the provisions adopted in implementation of Article 7(5) of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75; whereas, however, in respect of rye held by the milling industry, milling for human consumption is accepted as proof of sufficient quality,
1. A carry-over payment shall be granted for common wheat and for rye used for human consumption, harvested in the Community and in store there at the end of the 1980/81 marketing year.
2. A carry-over payment shall also be granted for maize harvested in the Community and in store in surplus production areas of the Community at the end of the 1980/81 marketing year.
3. The carry-over payment shall be equal to the difference between the single common intervention price applicable on 1 August 1980, increased by eleven monthly increases and converted into the national currency at the representative rate applicable on 31 July 1981, and the single common intervention price applicable in 1 August 1981. Where the calculation gives a negative amount the payment shall be counted as nil.
The carry-over payments referred to in Article 1(1) and (2) shall not be made for cereals from the .1981 harvest or for cereals which do not meet the
quality conditions required for intervention during the 1980/81 marketing year .
 In respect of rye held by the milling industry at the end of the marketing year, milling for human consumption is accepted as proof of sufficient quality .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication
-in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. . *
For the Council
COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No / 81 of
fixing the list of those Community regions which qualify for aid
for durum wheat and the amount of such aid for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 of 29 October 1975 on the common organisation of the market in cereals (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular Article 10(2) thereof ,
Having regard to the Act of Accession of Greece,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4), Whereas the purpose of the aid for durum wheat is to ensure a fair . standard of living for the least well-off farmers in those regions in which durum wheat is the traditional crop ;
Whereas Greece, under a previous national scheme, granted the same kind of aid for durum wheat as in the Community of Nine; whereas that aid was limited to areas at 500 m or more above sea level (upland areas); whereas durum wheat is grown in other regions of Greece;
Whereas the rate of- the Greek national aid was fixed for 1980/81 at
DRA 3 000 per hectare ;
Whereas the rules regarding the alignment of the aid as laid down in Article 68 of the Act of Accession apply to the aid for durum wheat applicable in Greece,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the aid for durum wheat referred to in Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 shall be fixed at:
 - for the Italian and French regions listed in the Annex:
areas within the meaning of the Greek regulations applicable until *31 December 1980,
- . 17.04 ECU pet hectare in those areas of the Same Greek regions which
did not qualify for national aid. ' - -'1.-.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its' f publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall be applicable from 1 August 1981.
This Regulation is binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all MemberStates. ■ ' • - ' , , ,
For the Council
Sicily Tuscany Umbria
mountain and hill-farming areas and less-favoured areas covered by Directive 75/268/EEC (1).
Thessaly Macedonia
, DuringthemeetingoftheCouncilofMinistersofAgricultureheldat Brussels held on 6 and 7 May 1980, the Federal Republic of Germany pointed to the difficulties encountered by its durum wheat processing industry. These difficulties are highlighted by the rapid fall in the number of German groats plants. The Commission was invited to study the problem and undertook to place a report before the Council. The Commission nevertheless feels that the problem is not confined to Germany and that the opportunity should be taken for a more general consideration of the durum wheat situation.
Durum wheat is subject to the common market organisation in tereals. •ie
However, as it is used exclusively for human consumption, it is not included in the "silo" scheme as it does not compete with other types for animal feed. There are, however, points of contact with that syfetem since' it is entirely possible to substitute common wheat for the manufacture of pasta products (the main use of Durum wheat) when the price difference between the two cereals is too great.
Durum wheat may be distinguished from the other cereals by the hybrid type of price system covering production. The system is based on an intervention price and producer aid, with the objeqt of reconciling the following two factors:
the interests of growers, by ensuring that they have a fair,, income, which the low productivity of durum wheat and the small scale of their farms in the southern regions of the EEC could not
the interest of pasta consumers, by providing the raw material at a relatively low price through an intervention price, fixed, in principle, at a reasonable level.
The introduction of high-yield varieties which has made durum wheat profitable by comparison with other crops in fertile areas has resulted in an extension in production of this cereal towards the north. This pattern, and the mediocre quality of some of these varieties , has led to further accentuation of the socio-structural aspects of the system.
Accordingly in 1976/77 the aid hitherto paid per ton was changed into an aid per hectare and its application was restricted to a.given
Initially , in order to avoid any substitution of common wheat at the expense of durum wheat for pasta manufacture, particular care was taken to set up a balanced relationship between these two cereals in respectofthebasicprices. Thisrelationshiphasbeensignificantly changed over the years:
number of geographical areas.
Year Durum Common • Price Durum wheat wheat ratio wheat
Common : wheat :
reference price for average quality; the target price is calculated from the average quality.%
As shown in the above table, the relationship between durum wheat and common wheat has changed completely as from the 1974/75 marketing year.
The reason for this trend is the Commission's attempt to take advantage of the exceptionally high prices on the world market to resolve the financial and administrative problems connected with the aid by proposing that it be incorporated in the intervention and target prices.
In the context at that time, the Community market prices were themselves to ensure encouragement of production and risk of recourse to intervention was minimal , which made it possible for the EAGGF to achieve substantial economies. . 1 ' ^
The Council adopted this proposal; nevertheless, it maintained the aid at the same time, although the Commission draft provided for the contrary. This new relationship between the prices has resulted, in the non-producer Member States where there is no purity law (1), to increasing substitution of common wheat for durum wheat in manufacture of pasta. In the Federal Republic of Germany where pasta manufacture is very stable (200 to 210 000 tonnes) 4?.2% of Common wheat is used against 10.3% in 1972. At the same time , the quantities of durum wheat crushed have fallen from 250 000 tonnes to 157 000 tonnes. This situation is no doubt connected with the reduction in the number of German groats plants (7. in 1979 and 14 in 1970).
The continuing problems on the durum wheat market require the
implementation of more energetic measures* It therefore seems appropriate during the discussion on prices applicable for 1981/82 to provide for measures to promote a return to a balanced price relationship.
Experience has shown that the 1967/68 relationship, 120/100 at support price level, makes the use of common wheat in place of durum wheat in pasta manufacture unattractive. A balanced situation of this kind would remove the risk of conflict resulting from different national laws on the composition of pasta. This improvement
(1) The purity law exists only in the Member States which produce durum wheat (Italy, Greece and France) and obliges industries in those countries to use durum wheat exclusively for the manufacture of pasta.
can only be achieved by a reduction in the relative value of the prices of durum wheat compared with those for common wheat. The quickest solution in practice would be to freeze the prices for durum - wheat while the prices for ccmmon wheat increased. This system would be maintained until the optimum relationship was reached.
However, in view of the general rise in production costs, a less severe solution could be accepted, whereby a lower price increase was granted for durum wheat than for common wheat.
If this solution were adopted, it would be necessary to spread the operation over several marketing years.
A. - Results xn the Community of Nine and Ten
When it was first implemented, the Community system had an undeniable effect on encouraging growth of durum wheat which increased very substantially (plus 220 000 ha in Italy, plus 80 000 ha in France between 1967 and 1970). After 1970, the total area under this cereal tended to steady.
Consumption, on the other hand, rose until 1972 to 1973, and then,
following high world prices and the consolidation of those high prices in the official Community prices, fell substantially, and finally steadied at a lower level. The present situation in the Community of Nine is one of a self-supply rate of some 95% for 1980/81 .
In Greece, the area under durum wheat is some 240 000 ha at present, 24 000 ha of which receive direct national aid which is also granted for other cereals. If all the area under durum wheat were to
qualify, during the transitional period, for the progressive Community aid granted at the same time as national aids applicable to other cereals were dismantled, one can expect a substantial change in cropping, in the long term, towards durum wheat.
Including Greece, the EEC has a self-supply rate of 106% on the basis of present figures, which represents net exports of 300,000 tonnes and a total exportable surplus of about 1,000,000 tonnes. Any conversion to durum wheat in Greece would only increase this surplus. '
The potential durum wheat production in the Iberian peninsula should also be emphasised . Like all Mediterranean countries , Spain produces and .
consumes this cereal . However , use of durum wheat jnas dropped somewhat since the early 70s as a result of increased incorporation of common wheat in pasta. '
Production has adapted to this situation and Spain at present has a balance both in production and area.
It is very likely that the grant of the Community aid and maintenance within the Community of Ten of a durum wheat/common wheat relationship considerably higher than that at present in force in Spain (118/100) could result in a sharp expansion of production and accordingly worsen the Community's surplus situation.
It may here be pointed out that there is almost unlimited scope for crop conversion in Spain.
Out of 7 million ha under cereals (including less than 100 ha under durum wheat), 5 million ha are in arid regions suitable for growing durum
wheat. In view of the low yields in these zones, an aid per hectare would have a significant effect on income and would therefore represent a substantial incentive.
The present results, in view of imports as a result of quality requirements, in turn requires export which is often expensive in budget terms. In a normal world market situation the refund required for disposal of common wheat is groats may be estimated at 100 ECU/t roughly (grain value). On the basis of a yield of 15 quintals/ha, every additional hectare under durum wheat would result in the following cost increase :
refund : 100 EC/t x 1,5 t/ha = 150 ECU = about 230 ECU/ha.
 This assessment is based on the favourable supposition that the world market is capable of absorbing the Community surpluses. The fact is that the market's absorption capacity is limited.
It is not certain ,
in these conditions , that very substantial surpluses in non-member countries , even with very high refunds .
would find
B. Policy for the aid system :
In view of thfe risks of structural surpluses and the continuing low incomes for many producers in the traditional durum wheat areas, measures are required which check the creation of surpluses and which guarantee a fair standard of living for the least favoured farmers. - Moreover, under the terms of the Act of Accession of Greece, the detailed rules for applying the Community aid to durum wheat in Greece must be defined before the next marketing year.
At present, the only criteria in force in the Community for determining beneficiaries of the aid is to use a geographical limit based on the average yield per hectare.
This makes it possible to bring out the regions with poor soil but /.
completely ignores the traditional aspect and the importance of durum wheat in local agriculture, and differences in income distribution within these zones .
A study of the structure in the main production zones (see Annex I) in Italy and in France shows that a large proportion of the aid goes to large farms.
In Italy , where practically all the output qualifies for aid , it may be found that, amongst farms growing durum wheat:
those with a UAA (Utilised Agricultural Area) of 100 ha and over represent only ISIS of the total but account for 14% of the area under this cereal;
44% of the area is covered by farms with a UAA of 20 ha or above; these only represent 14% of the total number;
8'155 of producers (who occupy only 39% of the area), particularly in Sicily, have farms with a UAA below 10 ha, of which 1.7 ha on average are under durum wheat.
In view of the need to avoid encouraging over-production in the ; enlarged Community, the aid should henceforth be limited to regions where durum wheat is traditionally grown and emphasis should be placed on the social character of the aid by helping producers who have the greatest need.
However, a solution based on different rates of aid according to the scale of the farm or the producers' incomes could encounter serious administrative problems, particularly in respect of checking producers eligible for the maximum rate. On the other hand, a system based on a maximum aid to be granted per farm would make it possible to reduce these difficulties to the strict minimum, while maintaining a clear social content.
It is therefore appropriate that the aid be limited to the first
10 hectares of each farm. This maximum aid would continue to assure a
significant contribution to the incomes of a very large majority of producers (some 94% of Italian producers would have no reduction in their aid ). At the same time , producers with large areas would continue to receive the maximum aid up to a limit of 10 ha, or 852 ECU
. If the Council accepted this criterion, a broad approach could be
envisaged for defining the regions where durum wheat is of some importance and of a traditional nature in local agriculture. This would make it possible to reduce the problems resulting from national administrative boundaries within a homogeneous production area.
The extent of durum wheat cultivation may be the ratio between the area und^r durum wheat
fallow land ). This ratio reaches
can drop tp 7% in some regions which can nevertheless be
Sicily and
in Annex II). Use of the
importance of durum wheat
adopting the following regions:
- in Italy : the regions qualifying for aid at present , except Umbria
and Marche ( in the latter , in particular , the development of durum wheat cultivation is very recent);
cultivation areas ( for example , Peloponnese maximum level of 7% to express the cultivation at local level would result in
very simply expressed by and the arable land area . a maximum of 55% in
 in Greece : all regions except Epirus , Thrace and Crete ;
in France : Provence/Alpes/Cote d'Azur and Languedoc/Roussillon .
It should be pointed
in abolishing aid in
production is in any
for this product. Disposal of bad quality products is more expensive than for good quality products.
The two aspects of this reorganisation of the aid system , namely : redefining the cultivation regions,
should , in combination , make a substantial economy possible compared with the present situation ( taking account , of course , of application of existing criteris to Greece), without reducing the income of the most needy producers.
This economy , on the basis cf 1979 areas , may be estimated as follows : 4%, following the new definition of the regions,
20% as a result of the limit on the aid,- a total of 2h%.
With regard to application of the new criteria, it would be necessary in the Member States which at present qualify for Community aid,
(Italy and France), to put it off by one marketing year so that producers are not taken by surprise. Producers have already sown their crops for the 1981 harvest . For Greece , on the other hand , criteria must be defined for applying the Community system from the 1981/ 82 marketing year . The Greek national aid which , under the terms of the Act of Accession, must be considered comparable to the Community aid, was granted only for a very limited area (mountain zones). Grant of the Community aid in accordance with the new criteria would therefore be in producers' interest and this would justify application of this system as from 1981/82.
out that a restriction of this kind would result
the wettest regions . In these zones , case very low and it is not desirable in view of the quality problems which
durum wheat to
could arise
Number of farms
Average area
Area under durum wheat, broken down by scale of farm, by region and by average area per farm (1975)
Number of farms
Average area
Source: EUROSTAT; Farm structures survey - 1975 (1) including other regions.
On farms with a UAA of:
: durumwheat
Areas under durum wheat compared with arable area , by reqion
: Thessaly
: Other regions
Durum wheat as % ofarableland :
laying down technical requirements in respect
of common wheat for bread-mskirfg
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
' Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 of 29 October 1975 on the common organization of the market in cereals (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular Article 4 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Article 3(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 provides that the reference price is to be fixed for common wheat which meets standard qualitycriteriaandmediumbread-makingqualityrequirements;' whereas Article 4 of that Regulation provides that the Council shall determine the minimum bread-making requirements;
Whereas the definition of medium bread-making quality and minimum bread­ making requirements should be "based both on the behaviour of tt^ie dough during the mechanical kneading process and also on its chemical and * biochemical properties; s
Common wheat shall meet the requirements for medium bread-making quality
when the dough from such wheat does not stick during the mechanical kneading process and when it has the following chemical and biochemical properties: .
 - protein content of at least 11.5%;
- Zeleny index of at least 25%;
- Hagberg falling index of at least 260 (60 seconds of preparation plus
falling time).
Common wheat shall satisfy the minimum bread-making requirements when it
presents an acceptable degree of amylasic activity and an acceptable protein content and when the dough obtained from this wheat does not stick during the mechanical kneading process.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 August 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States . .
Done at For the Council
COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No / 81 of
' amending Council Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 on the common organization of the market in cereals
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2),
Whereas the common agricultural policy is based on three principles: market unit , Community preference and shared financial responsibility ;
Whereas market unity is achieved by means of common prices;' whereas these prices , together with intervention measures , are the principal instruments , of the agricultural incomes policy; whereas this policy has brought about or is liable to bring about serious imbalances between supply and demand;
Whereas despite annual variations Community cereal production is increasing more rapidly than demand; whereas this is resulting in increasingly burdensome budgetary expenditure;
Whereas in order to bring this increase in public expenditure under control i
it is necessary to adjust the market organization without however calling into question the present principles of the common agricultural policy;
Whereas the adjustment to be made to the organization of the market must be based on the idea that it is neither economically sound nor financially possible to guarantee price levels for unlimited quantities of products; whereas effect may be given to this idea by introducing the principle of a
financial contribution by producers in the cereals sector; whereas this principle must be permanently inserted in Council Regulation (EEC)
No 2727/75 of 29 October 1975 on the common organization of the market in cereals (3), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (4);
 Whereas an the cereals sector this financial contribution may take the form of a reduction of the guarantee when production exceeds a certain basic quantity to be determined ; whereas , in view of the present price system and the relationship between the different kinds of cereal,' separate basic quantities must be fixed for certain product groups;
Whereas in accordance with Article 9(3) of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 the carry-over payment for certain cereals harvested in the Community may not ' exceed the difference between the target price -valid for the last month of the marketing year and the target price valid for the first month of the next marketing year; whereas this provision does not take sufficient account of the costs resulting from storage during the months of June and July; whereas in consequence cereals that in normal conditions could remain on the market are liable to be offered for intervention; whereas in order to prevent such intervention the maximum amount of the payment should be fixed at the difference between the intervention prices plus an appropriate number of monthly increases ; whereas , to prevent any uncertainty harmful to operators as a result of the application of
Article 3a of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75, no account should be taken of it in the calculation of the carry-over payment,
Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75is amended as follows: 1. The following Article 3a is inserted:
1. If in any marketing year Community production of
- common wheat of breadmaking quality
- durum wheat ,
- rye , barley , maize and other cereals
exceeds a basic quantity fixed for each of the cereal groups the reference price of commonwheat of breadmaking quality , the intervention price of durum wheat and the single common intervention price shall be reduced for the marketing year in question by a percentage to be determined.
2. The Council, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty, shall fix the basic quantities mentioned in paragraph 1 and the percentage reduction to be made in the
intervention and/or reference prices.
3. The Commission, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in . Article 26, shall ascertain Community production of each product
group mentioned in paragraph 1 and , if necessary , the price reduction to be applied under paragraph 2. It will adopt detailed rules for
the application of this Article in accordance with the same procedure ."
Article 9(3 ) is amended to read as follows :
"3. The carry-over payment for each cereal shall not exceed the
difference between the intervention price fixed by the Council for . the first month of the marketing year, increased by eleven monthly increases, and the intervention price fixed by the Council for the
first month of the next marketing year.
In the application of this paragraph Article 3a shall be disregarded." t
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, For the Council
on the application of Article 3e of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75
on the common organization of the market in cereals THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 of 29 October 1975 on the common organization of the market in cereals (1), as last amended by
the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular Article 3a(2) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission (3),
Having regard to the Opinion of the Europen Parliament (4) ,
Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (5),
Whereas Article 3a of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 has added, to the three principles which have hitherto governed the common agricultural policy, a further principle , namely , a financial contribution by producers when there i§ a production surplus; and whereas that contribution consists in reduced guaranteed prices if production exceeds a basic quantity to be determined;
Whereas the basic quantity for each group of cereals referred to in
Article 3a of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 must, on this first occasion, be determined in the light not only of the situation with regard to supply and demand but also of the fact that the financial contribution represents a new and unforeseen factor for producers;
Whereas in order to facilitate the changeover from a system of unlimited guarantee to one involving a financial contribution and at the same time impart a certain direction to production over the medium term, the basic quantity should be fixed for a period of three marketing years; and whereas, for the same reason, minimum and maximum limits should be fixed in respect of the decrease in guaranteed prices,
For the 1981/ 82 , 1982/ 83 and 1983/ 84 marketing years , the basic
quantities referred to in Article 3a(l) of Regulation (EEC) No 2727/75 shall be as follows:
million tonnes for common wheat of bread-making quality million tonnes for durum wheat and
million tonnes for rye , barley , maize and the' other cereals .
2. If the
exceeds the basic quantities referred to in paragraph 1 above, the reference price for common wheat, the intervention price for durum wheat and/or the common single intervention price applicable shall be reduced by 0.1% for every 0.1% in excess of the basic quantity. However, the prices concerned shall not be reduced if production exceeds the basic . quantity by less than 0.5%. ' - .
The reduction in prices shall not be greater than 5% of the prices concerned as fixed by the Council for the month of August of that marketing year . ,
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication
in the Official Journal of the European Communities. It shall apply from 1 August 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. .
For the Council
recorded Community production for the marketing year concerned
fixing, for the 1981/82 marketing year, the intervention price for raw sugar, the minimum prices for beet and the threshold prices
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation ( EEC ) No / 80 of 1980
on the common organization of the market in sugar (1), and in particular Articles 3(4), 5(4) and 14(5) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No /81 of fixing for the 1981 / 82 marketing year , the intervention price for white sugar , the basic price for beet, the sta?id»rd quality of beet and the amount of the repayment of the offset stcrsge costs (2), fixed the intervention price for white sugar at 46.52 ECU per 100 kilograms;
Whereas Article 3(1) of Regulation (EEC) No /81 provides for the fixing of an intervention price for raw sugar; whereas this price should be based on the intervention price for white sugar, fixed values being taken for the processing margin, transport costs , sugar supply and yield ;
Whereas Regulation ( EEC) No / 81 fixed the basic price for beet at 35.58 ECU per tonne; whereas Article 5 of Regulation (EEC) No
states that the minimum price for A quota and B quota beet is to be 97.5% and 60% respectively of the basic beet price;
Whereas in accordance with Article 14(2) of Regulation (EEC) No /81 the threshold price of white sugar is equal to its intervention price multiplied by a coefficient of 1.05, plus transport charges, calculated at a flat rate, from the Community area having the largest surplus to the most distant deficit area in the Community, plus a fixed amount representing the storage levy which, for 1981/82, can be estimated at 3.48 ECU per 100
of white sugar ;
 Whereas the threshold price for raw sugar must be derived from the threshold price for white sugar l?y taking into account a processing margin and a standard yield ;
Whereas the threshold price for molasses must be fixed in such a way that the receipts from sales of molasses can reach the level of the receipts of the undertakings taken into account in the fixing of basic price for beet;
The intervention price for raw sugar shall be 30.58 ECU per 100 kilograms .
This intervention price shall be valid for raw sugar of standard quality, not packed, ex-factory, loaded on to the means of transport chosen by the buyer .
1. The minimum price for quota 2. The minimum price for quota
The threshold price shall be :
This Regulation shall enter into Official Journal of the European
A beet shall be 34.69 ECU per tonne. B beet shall be 21.35 ECU per tonne.
of white sugar; of raw sugar; of molasses.
force on the day of its publication in the Communities.
It shall apply for the 1981 / 82 marketing year .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
fixing, for the 1981 sugar year, the intervention price for white sugar, the basic price for beet , the standard quality of beet and the amount of the repayment to offset storage costs
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community , and in particular Article A3 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No /81 of 1981 on the common organization of the market in sugar (1), and in particular Articles 3(3), 4(3) and 8(3) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3),
Whereas, when sugar pri e are fixed, account should be taken of the objectives of the common ayr:cultural policy and of the contribution which the Community intends to make to the harmonious development of world trade; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are in particular to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, to ensure that supplies are available and that they reach consumers at reasonable prices;
Whereas the basic price for beet must take account of the intervention price and of the costs of processing and delivering the beet to factories and be based on an estimated Community yield of 130 kilograms of white sugar per tonne of beet with a 16% sugar content;
Whereas, the abovementioned costs may be put at 19.15 ECU per 100 kilograms of white sugar; whereas that amount is made up of the sum of the processing margin, estimated at 17.66 ECU, and the costs of delivering the beet to factories, estimated at 3.25 ECU, less 1.76 ECU representing factories' receipts from the sale of molasses calculated on the basis of a yield of 38.5 kilograms per tonne of beet processed and an ex-factory price for molasses of 5.95 ECU per 100 kilograms of molasses adjusted on the basis of the trend in recent years of the effective selling price;
 Whereas the standard quality chosen for beet should be a quality which takes account of production characteristics in the main beet-producing areas of the Community. t
Whereas Article 5 of Regulation (EEC) No 1358/77 (4) provides that the amount repaid to offset storage costs shall be fixed per month and per unit
of weight , account being taken of financing , insurance and costs ,
The intervention pricevfor white sugar shall be 46.52 ECU per 100 kilograms.
The minimum price for beet shall be 35.58 ECU per tonne delivered at the collection centre .
Standard quality beet shall:
(a) be of sound and fair merchantable quality;
(b) have a sugar content of -16% at the reception point.
The amount of the repayment referred to in Article 8 of Regulation (EEC)
No /81 shall be 0.58 ECU per month per 100 kilograms of white sugar.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the
Official Journal of the European Communities. It shall apply for the 1981/82 marketing year.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
' For the Council The President
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article A3 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation No 136/66/EEC of 22 September 1966 on the common organization of the market in oils and fats (1), as last
amended 1 by Regulation (EEC) No (2), and in particular Articles 4(A)
fixing , for the 1981/82 marketing year , the production target price ,
the production1 aid and the intervention price for olive oil and the maximum production and the percentage of production aid referred to in Article 5(2) and (7) respectively of Regulation No 136/66/EEC
(7) thereof,
to the proposal fro -11 the Commission ,
to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (A),
and 5(2) and Having regard Having regard Having regard
Whereas, when
should be taken of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community desires to make to the harmonious development of world trade ; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are, in particular, to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community and to ensure that supplies are available and reach consumers at reasonable prices ;
the production target price for olive oil is fixed, account
Whereas the target price referred to above must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid down in Articles A and 6 of Regulation
 Whereas, if the producer is to receive a fair income, the production aid must be fixed in the light of the impact which the consumption aid has on part of the production only;
Whereas the intervention price must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 8 of Regulation No 136/66/EEC;
Whereas Articles 79 and 81 of the Act of Accession of Greece (5) laid down the criteria for fixing, respectively, the intervention price and the
production aid applicable in Greece; whereas, on these criteria the
abovementioned price and aid should be fixed at the levels indicated below; I
Whereas the production target price and the intervention price are fixed for a specific standard quality; whereas the reasons which led to the determination of the standard quality for the 1980/81 marketing year are still valid; whereas that standard quality should therefore remain
unchanged ;
Whereas, pursuant to Article 5(2) of Regulation No 436/66/EEC, the maximum production, qualifying for the unit production aid fixed for each of the marketing years in question, is fixed; whereas the criteria referred to in Article 5(3) of the said Regulation require that the maximum production for the 1981/82, 1982/83 and 1983/84 marketing years be fixed at the
Whereas under Article 5(4) of Regulation No 136/66/EEC a percentage of the production aid earmarked for some or all producers may be allocated to' the financing of regional measures to improve the quality of olive oil production; whereas sufch measures are necessary, in particular for plant health reasons, in certain Italian and French production regions; whereas some of the production aid earmarked for Italian and French producers should therefore be allocated to the financing of such measures,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the production target price for olive oil, the production aid and the intervention price shall be as follows:
- for the other Member States: 60.00 ECU per 100 kilograms;
- for the other Member States: 190.93 ECU per 100 kilograms.
The prices specified in Article 1 relate to semi-fine virgin olive oil
with a free fatty acid content, expressed as oleic acid, of three grams per 100 grams.
For the 1981/82, 1982/83' and 1983/84 marketing years, the maximum olive oil
production referred to in Article 5(2) of Regulation No 136/66/EEC is hereby fixed at 700 000 tonnes for each said marketing year.
For the 1981/82 marketing year, 3% of the production aid earmarked for
olive oil producers in Italy and France shall be allocated to the financing of specific measures to improve the quality of olive oil in those countries. .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
/ of
fixing, for the 1981/82 marketing year, the monthly increases in
the representative market price, the intervention price and the threshold price for olive oil
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation No 136/66/EEC of 22 September 1966 on the establishment of a common organization of the market in oils and fats (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No /81 (2), and in particular Article 10 thereof,
HavingregardtotheproposalfromtheCommission, -
Whereas, under Article 10 of Regulation No 136/66/EEC, the representative market price, the intervention price and the threshold price for olive oil must be increased each month for a period of at least fj.ve months beginning
on 1 January 1982; whereas these increases must be the same for all three prices; * , .
Whereas, in fixing these increases the same for each of these months,
account being taken of average storage costs and interest charges in the
Community, the average. storage costs should be established on the basis of
the cost of storing oil in the appropriate premises and of the handling
required for preserving the oil in good condition; whereas the interest
charges can be calculated with reference to the average price of olive oil
valid in production areas; *
Whereas, to ensure orderly marketing of the production, in.view of the prospects for production and consumption, it is sufficient t;o provide for seven increases for olive oil,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the amount of the monthly increases
referred to In Article 10 of Regulation No 136/66/EEC and applicable for seven months with effect from 1 January 1982 shall be 1.56 ECU per 100 kilograms .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels . For the Council The President
amending Regulation No 136/66/EEC on the , establishment of
a common organization of the market in oils and fats
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof, , j / Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2),
Whereas the common agricultural policy is based on three principles: the
unity of the market, Community preference and financial solidarity; .»
Whereas the unity of the market is achieved by means of common prices; whereas those prices , combined with intervention measures , are the chief instruments of incomes policy in agriculture; whereas that policy has led or is liable to lead to serious imbalances between supply and demand;
Whereas Council Regulation No 136/66/EEC of 22 September 1966 on the establishment of a common organization of the market in oils and fats (3), as last amended by Regulation '(EEC) No /81 (4) provides for a system of aid for olive oil and for oilseeds; whereas in the light, on the one
hand, of production trends and the level of prices payable to producers and
consequently of the level of aid payments* to be made and , on the other , of the abovementioned imbalance, budgetary expenditure in the sector is increasingly heavy; .
Whereas in order to bring the increase in public expenditure under control the common organization of the market should be adjusted, but without calling into question the present principles of the common agricultural policy ;
Whereas the adjustment should be based on the idea that it is neither economically sound nor financially possible to guarantee price levels for
unlimited quantities of produce; introducing a new principle:
whereas that objective can be achieved by
 the financial participation of producers; whereas that principle must be incorporated on a permanent basis;
Whereas in the oils and fats sector such financial participation may take the form of a reduction in the guarantee where production exceeds a certain ceiling to be determined; whereas, in view of the differing nature of the market organizations for olive oil and oilseeds, the principle of financial participation of producers should be introduced according to different rules for the two sectors;
Whereas , as regards the olive oil sector , the financial participation of producers can be brought about by restricting entitlement to the production aid fixed at the beginning of the marketing year to a maximum quantity determined for the marketing year in question ; whereas , where the ceiling is exceeded, the aid is reduced in proportion to the excess amount;
Whereas, as regards colza and rape seed, the desired purpose can b§ achieved by reducing the target price and the intervention price where Community production exceeds a ceiling fixed by reference to the outlets available for the products obtained by crushing the seed in question,
amended as follows: read as follows :
1, be introduced for olive oil. This aid shall be
Article 5 is amended to
designed to contribute towards the establishment of a fair income for producers. . .
2. Before 1 August each year for the marketing year beginning the following year the Council, acting in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty, shall fix the unit amount of the production aid. In accordance with the same procedure the
Council shall fix, for a given period and for the first time for the 1981/82, 1982/83 and 1983/84 marketing years, the maximum olive oil production to which the aid so fixed shall apply.
The maximum production shall be determined at the same time as the.', aid is fixed for the first marketing year of the period in question.
3. The aid shall be fixed account being taken of the effect of the consumption aid referred to in Article 11 on a part of the production only. The maximum olive oil productipn to which the aid so fixed shall apply shall be determined account being taken, in particular, of average production over a reference perod and of the desirable level of production.
4. If actual production during a marketing year is:
(a) less than the maximum production fixed , increased , as the case
may be , by the quantity carried over as stated below , the difference shall be added to the maximum production eligible for the unit aid fixed for the following marketing year(s);
(b) greater than the maximum production fixed plus any quantity carried over, the unit aid payable per 100 kg of actual production shall be reduced by applying a coefficient obtained by dividing the maximum quantity increased, as the case may be, as referred to above by the quantity actually eligible for the aid. ■
aid shall be granted:
association recognized under Regulation (EEC) No 1360/78 and
5. The
- to growers who are members of a producer group belonging to an
 this Regulation and to individual growers referred to in
Article 20c who agree to abide by the rules of that association, on the basis of the quantity of oil actually produced;
- to other growers, on the basis of the number and production potential of the olive trees which they grow and of the standardized yields of those trees, and provided the olives produced have actually been harvested.
The aid shall, however, be granted only in respect of areas planted with olive trees at 31 October 1978 and in Greece at 1 January 1981.
6. Recognized associations may assist in determining the actual production referred to in the first indent of paragraph 5 and in establishing the production potential and yields referred to in the second indent of paragraph 5.
7. The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt the general rules for the application of this Article. In accordance with the same procedure the Council may decide to allocate a percentage , to be determined , of the production aid allotted to some or all producers to the financing of regional measures to improve the quality of olive oil production.
8. Detailed rules for the application of this Article and the percentage of the production aid which producer Member States are to
pay as an advance shall
laid down in Article 38
the procedure laid down
No 729/70 of 21 April 1970 on the financing of the common agricultural policy, as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2788/72."
be adopted in accordance with the procedure and , where appropriate , in accordance with in Article 13 of Council Regulation (EEC)
The following Article 22a is added:
1. The Council, acting on a proposal from the Commission in accordance
with the procedure laid down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty, shall fix for a given period and for the first time for the 1981/82, 1982/83 and 1983/84 marketing years the maximum production of colza and rape seed to which the prices referred to in Article 22 shall apply .
The maximum production shall be determined at the same time as the prices are fixed for the first marketing year of the period in question. \ '
The maximum production of colza and rape seed shall be determined account being taken , in particular , of production recorded over a reference period and of the foreseeable prospects for disposal of the products obtained by crushing these seeds.
If Community production during a marketing year exceeds the maximum determined for that marketing year, the target price and the intervention price shall be reduced by an amount calculated by reference to the excess quantity.
The Council , when fixing the prices and acting in accordance with . the same procedure , shall determine :
- the amount of the reduction in the target price and intervention
price to be applied for each point by which actual production ■
exceeds the maximum fixed,
- the maximum amount by which the target price and the intervention
price may be reduced. , ,
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the )'
Commission, shall determine the general rules for the application of this Article.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted, and the part of the aid and the intervention price which Member States are to pay as an advance shall be determined, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38."
Article 26 is amended to read as follows: "Article 26
In each Member State an intervention agency shall , under conditions
to be laid down in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2 »
and 3, buy in seeds of Community origin offered to it at intervention centres. The intervention agency shall buy at the intervention price, reduced where appropriate in accordance with „ Article 22a(3).
If, however, the quality of the seeds offered to the intervention agency does not correspond to that for which the intervention price was fixed, the buying-in price shall be adjusted by means of a scale of price increases and reductions.
Furthermore, if at the request of the intervention agency the seeds are delivered to a place other than the centre indicated by the seller when the offer is made, the resulting change in the seller's transport costs shall be taken into account when payment is effected.
The Council , acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission , shall lay down :
(a) the conditions under which the intervention shall take place
during the last two months of the marketing year;
(b) the principles governing the disposal by intervention agencies
of seeds bought-in by them;
(c) the principles governing payment of the intervention price by
Detailed rules for the application of this Article , and in particular rules concerning the quality and size of the consignments offered, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 38."
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council
15 ; COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No /81 1 of
fixing for the 1981/82, 1982/83 ana 1983/84 marketing years the maximum production of colza and rape seed referred to in Article 22a of Regulation No 136/66/EEC and laying down certain provisions relating thereto
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation No 136/66/EEC of 22 September 1966 on the establishment of a common organization of the market in oils and fats (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No /81 (2), and in particular paragraph 1 and the third subparagraph of paragraph 3 .of Article22athereof, •
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4), ■
\' Whereas pursuant to Article 22a of Regulation No 136/66/EEC the maximum
production of colza and rape seed to which the prices referred to in
Article 22 shall apply is to be fixed for a given period; whereas in /»\
' accordance with the criteria referred to in Article 22a(2) of the abovementioned Regulation the maximum production for the 1981/82, 1982/83 and 1983/84 marketing years should be fixed at the level specified below;
Whereas pursuant to Article 22a(3) of the abovementioned Regulation the target price and the intervention price are to be reduced if Community production during a marketing year exceeds the maximum determined for that marketing year; whereas the purpose of the co-responsibility system in the colza and rape seed sector can be achieved by fixing the amount of the reduction in prices for each percentage point by which the maximum is exceeded and the maximum amount of* the reduction at the levels specified
The maximum production of colza and rape seed referred to in Article 22a of
Regulation No 136/66/EEC shall be fixed for the marketing years: - 1981/82 at 2 200 000 t
For. the 1981/82 marketing year tne prices for colza and rape seed referred
to in Article 22 of Regulation No 136/66/EEC shall be reduced by an amount equal to 0.01 ECU per 100 kg for each 0.195 by which actual production exceeds the maximum laid down.
However, the prices referred to above may not bie reduced by more than 1.93 ECU per 100 kg.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the
Official Journal of the European Communities .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council
 COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No / 81 of
fixing , for the 1981/82 marketing year , the target prices and basic intervention prices for colza and raps seed and sunflower seed
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation No 136/66/EEC of 22 September 1966 on the common organization of the market in oils and fats (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 3454/80 (2), and in particular the third subparagraph of Article 22(1) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3), - Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas, when the target prices and basic intervention prices for colza and rape seed and sunflower seed are fixech, account should be taken of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community desires to make to the harmonious development of world
trade ; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are , in particular, to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, to ensure that supplies are available and that they reach consumers at reasonable prices; '
Whereas Article 2 of Regulation (EEC) No 1585/80 provides that the basic intervention prices for the 1981/82 marketing year must be fixed at levels that will permit a smooth transition to the intervention price system applying from the 1982/83 marketing year; .
 Whereas application of these criteria entails fixing the target price and basic intervention price for colza and rape seed and for sunflower seed at a higher level than that adopted for the preceding marketing year;
Whereas the prices of colza and rape seed and sunflower seed must be fixed for specific standard qualities; whereas the latter should be laid down in relation to the average qualities of the seeds harvested in the Community; whereas, for colza and rape seed and sunflower seed, the quality laid down for-the 1980/81 marketing year meets these requirements and can accordingly be used for the following marketing year,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the target prices and the basic intervention prices for colza and rape seed and sunflower seed shall be as follows :
The
colza and rape seed :
basic intervention prices are valid in Genoa.
prices referred to in Article 1 relate to seeds in bulk, of sound, fair
The
(a) with an impurity content of 2% and, for seeds as such, humidity and oil contents of 9 and 40% respectively in the case of colza and rape seed;
(b) with an impurity content of 2% and, for seeds as such, humidity and oil contents of 10 and h0% respectively in the case of sunflower seed.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. '
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and . directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
 COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No /81 17 of
fixing, for the 1981/82 marketing year, the 'monthly increases in the target and intervention prices for colza and rape seed and sunflower seed
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, v
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 136/66/EEC of 22 September 1966 on the establishment of a common organization of the market in oils and fats (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 3454/80 (2), and in particular Article 25 thereof, -
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas, in accordance with Article 25 of Regulation No 136/66/EEC, the amount by which the target and intervention prices for colza and rape seed and sunflower seed are increased monthly from the beginning of the third month of the marketing year should be fixed for the 1981/82 marketing year, and the number of months during which such increases are to be applied should be determined; whereas such amount must be the same for both prices
Whereas such increases must be the same for each month and be fixed by reference to average storage and interest charges recorded in the Community; whereas average storage charges should be determined on the basis of the cost of storing the seed in suitable premises and of the handling charges necessary to keep the seed in good condition; whereas interest charges may be calculated on the basis of the rate considered as normal for the production areas;
Whereas, taking into account the aforesaid requirements, the monthly increases for the 1981/82 marketing year should be fixed at a higher level than that for the preceding marketing year;
 Whereas, for colza and rape seed the experience gained during the 1980/81 marketing year and harvest forecasts justify determining for, the 1981/82
marketing year a number of monthly increases different from th^t laid down for the preceding marketing year,
1. For the 1981/82 marketing year, the amount of the (monthly increases in thetarget and intervention prices for colza and rape seed shall be 0.452 ECU per 100 kilograms. I
2. These increases shall apply for eight months.
1. For the 1981/82 marketing year, the amount of the monthly increases in
the target and intervention prices for sunflower seed shall be 0.535ECU per 100 kilograms. 1
2. These increases shall apply for five months.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council ' The President
fixing the guide price for soya beans for the 1981/82 marketing year THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1614/79 of 24 July 1979 laying down special measures for soya beans (1), and in particular Article 1(1) and ( 3 ) thereof ,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3),
Whereas, when the guide price for soya beans is fixed on an annual basis, account should be taken of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community desires to make to the harmonious development of world trade; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are, in particular, to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community and to ensure that supplies are available and reach consumers at reasonable prices;
Whereas the second subparagraph of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EEC)
No 1614/79 provides more specifically that this price shall be fixed at a level which is fair to producers, account being taken of the supply requirements of the Community ; whereas , to this end , a balanced relationship should be maintained between this price and the price of other oil seeds;
 Whereas in accordance with these criteria the guide price should be fixed
at the level indicated below; f-
Whereas the guide price must be fixed for a standard quality to be
determined Community; meets this marketing year,
by reference to the average quality of beans harvested in the whereas the quality laid down for the 1980/81 marketing year
requirement and can accordingly be used for the following
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the guide price for soya beans shall be 46.26 ECU per 100 kilograms.
The price referred to in Article 1 relates to beans:
- in bulk, of sound, genuine and merchantable quality, and
- with an impurity content of 2% and, for beans as such, humidity and oil
contents Of 14 and 18£ respectively.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the
Official Journal of the European Communities. ■ ^
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council The President
 COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No / 81 of
fixing the minimum price for soya beans for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having.regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1614/79 of-24 July 1979 laying down special measures in respect of soya beans (1), and in particular Article 2(4 ) thereof ,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Article 2(4) of Regulation (EEC) No 1616/79 provides that the Council shall each year fix a minimum price for soya beans; whereas the price is fixed so as to guarantee sales for bean producers at a price as close as possible to the guide price, taking into account market fluctuations and the cost of transporting the beans from the production areas to the processing areas;
Whereas , in order to achieve the abovementioned objective , this minimum price must be fixed for a standard quality and a well-defined marketing stage , '
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the minimum price for soya beans referred
to in Article 2(4) of Regulation (EEC) No 1614/79 shall be 41.63 ECU per 100 kilograms.
The price referred to in Article 1 shall apply to beans which meet the
criteria referred to in Article 2 of Council Regulation (EEC) No /81 of 1981 fixing the guide price for soya beans for the 1981/82 marketing year (2).
The said price shall relate to goods ready for dispatch from the production areas .
(1) OJ No L 190, 28.7.1979, p. 8 (2) See page of this Official Journal
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Tiiis Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council ' The President
fixing the guide price for linseed for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 569/76 of 15 March 1976 laying down special measures for linseed (1), and in particular Article 1(1) and (3) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Cpmmittee (3),
Whereas, when the guide price for linseed is fixed on an annual basis, account should be taken of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community desires to make to the harmonious development of world trade; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are, in particular, to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community and to ensure that supplies are available and reach consumers at reasonable prices;
Whereas the first subparagraph of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EEC)
No 569/76 provides more specifically that this price shall be fixed at a level which is fair to producers , account being taken of the supply requirements of the Community; - whereas, to this end, a balanced relationship should be maintained between this price and the price of other oil seeds;
 Whereas in accordance with these criteria the guide price should be fixed at a higher level than that adopted for the preceding marketing year;
Whereas the guide price must be fixed for a standard quality to be determined by reference to the average quality of seeds harvested in the Community; whereas the quality laid, down for the 1980/81, marketing year meets this requirement and can accordingly be used for the following marketing year,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the guide price for linseed shall be 46.40
The price referred to in Article 1 relates to seed:
- in bulk, of sound, genuine and merchantable quality, and
- with an impurity content of 2% and, for seeds as.such, humidity and oil
contents of 9 and 38% respectively. Article 3
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council The President
fixing the guide price for castor seeds for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2874/77 of 19 December 1977 laying down special measures in respect of castor seeds (1), and in particular Article 1(1) and (3) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard- to the cpinion of the European Parliament (2), -
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3),
Whereas subparagraph 1 of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 2874/77 provides that a guide price for castor seeds falling within subheading 12.01 B of the Common Customs Tariff shall be fixed annually;
Whereas, when this price is fixed, account should be taken of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community desires to make to the harmonious development of world trade; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are in particular to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, and to ensure that supplies are available and reach consumers at reasonable prices;
Whereas the third subparagraph of Article 1(1) of Regulation (EEC)
No 2874/77 provides more specifically that this price shall be fixed at a fair level for producers, having regard to the supply requirements of the Community; whereas, to this end, a balanced relationship should be maintained between this price and the price which may be obtained for substitute crops and, in particular, from other other oil seeds;
 Whereas the guide price must be fixed for a standard quality to be determined taking into account the average quality of the seeds harvested in the Community; whereas the quality laid down for the 1981/82 marketing year meets this requirement and can accordingly be used for the following marketing year, ,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the guide price for castor seeds shall
The price referred to in Article 1 shall relate to seeds:
- in bulk , of sound , genuine and merchantable quality , and
- with an impurity content of 2% and, for the seeds as such, humidity and
oil contents of 14 and 45% respectively.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the
Official- Journal of the European Communities .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council The President
 Proposal for a '
fixing the minimum price for castor seeds for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having, regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2874/77 of 19 December 1977 laying down special measures in respect of castor seeds (1), and in particular Article 2(4) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Article 2(4) of Regulation (EEC) No 2874/77 provides that the Council shall each year fix a minimum price for castor seeds ; whereas that price must be fixed so as to guarantee sales for seed producers at a price as close as possible to the guide price, taking into account market fluctuations and the cost of transporting the seeds from the production areas to the processing areas; '
Whereas, in order to achieve the aboyementioned objective, this minimum price must be fixed for a standard quality and a well-defined marketing
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the minimum price for castor seeds referred
to in Article 2(4) of Regulation (EEC) No 2874/77 shall be 56.96 ECU per 100 kilograms.
The price referred to in Article 1 shall apply to seeds which meet the criteria referred to in Article 2 of Council Regulation (EEC) No /81 of 1981 fixing the guide price for castor seeds for the 1981/82 marketing year (2).
The said price shall relate to goods ready for dispatch from the production areas .
of this O.J.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in
For the Council The President
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1119/78 of 22 May 1978 laying down special measures for peas and field beans used in the feeding of
animals (1), and thereof ,
Having regard to Having' regard to Having regard to
in particular Article 1(1) and (4) and Article 2(2)
the the the
proposal from the Commission,
opinion of the European Parliament ( 2 ), .
opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3),
of Regulation (EEC) No 1119/78 provides that an
aid for peas and field beans must be fixed in relation
fixing , for the 1981/ 82 marketing year , the activating price for aid for peas and field beans and the minimum price for these products
Whereas Article 1(2)
to soya meal at a level which, while ensuring a fair income to producers, enables peas and field beans to compete normally with oilseed meals for use in animal feed;
Whereas this activating price Tor aid for peas and field beans must relate to a standard quality of soya meal which is representative of the average quality sold on the Community market;
Whereas Article 2 of the same Regulation provides for the fixing of a minimum price which, allowing for market fluctuations and for the cost of transport of the product from producer to processor, enables producers to obtain a fair return, * ,
1. For the 1981/82 marketing year the activating price for aid for peas and field beans, as referred to in Article 1 of Regulation (EEC) No 1119/78, shallbe 41.83 ECUper100kilograms.
2. This price shall relate to soya meal having: - a total raw protein content of 44%,
- a humidity content of 11%.
For the 1981/82 marketing year the minimum purchase price for peas and field beans shall be 24.47 ECU per 100 kilograms.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the
Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply with effect from 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council The President
fixing the flat-rate production aid and the guide price for
dried fodder for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78 of 22 May 1978 on the common organization of the market in dried fodder (1), as last amended by the Act concerning the conditions of accession of the Hellenic Republic and the adjustments to the Treaties (2) (hereinafter referred to as the "Act"), and in particular Article 3(3 ), 4(1 ) and ( 3 ) and 5(2 ) thereof ,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas Article 3 of Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78 stipulates that the level of the production aid for dried fodder must be such as to bring about an improvement in the Community's protein supplies;
Whereas under Article 4 of the same Regulation a guide price must be set for certain dried fodder products at a level which is fair to producers; whereas this price must be set for a standard quality representative of the average quality of dried fodder produced in the Community;
Whereas under Article 5(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78 the supplementary aid provided for in paragraph 1 of that Article must be equal to a percentage of the difference between the guide price and the average world market price for the products in question; whereas in view of the characteristics of the market in question the percentage should be set at 80% for the products referred to in Article 1(b), first indent, and (c) of Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78 and at 45% for the products referred to in Article 1(b), second indent, of that Regulation;
 Whereas Article 104 of the Act established the criteria for fixing the flat-rate aid and guide price applicable in Greece,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the flat-rate production aid provided for
in Article 3 of Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78 shall be:
(a) for the products referred to in Article 'l(a) of the said Regulation: - for Greece, 2.68 . ECU per tonne, - for the other Member States, 13.41 ECU per tonne;
(b) for the products referred to in Article 1(b) and (c) of the said Regulation:
- for Greece, , 1.41 ECU per tonne, - for the other Member States, 7.03 ECU per tonne:
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the guide price for the products referred
to in Article 1(b), first indent, of Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78 shall be: - for Greece, 140.93 ECU per tonne,
- for the other Member States, 148.08 ECU per tonne;
This price refers to a product with:
- a moisture content of 11%,
- a total gross protein content of 18% df the dry weight.
Article 3 , For the 1981/82 marketing year the percentages to be used to calculate the
supplementary aid referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78 shall be: , '
- 80% for the products referred to in Article 1(b), first indent, and (c) of Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78, .. ,
- 45% for the products referred to in Article 1(b), second indent.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the
Official Journal of the European Communities. -
It shall apply:
- as from 1 July 1981 as regards the products referred to in Article 1(a)
of Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78;
- as from 1 April 1981 as regards the products referred to in Article 1(b)
and (c) of that same Regulation. s
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council \
amending Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78 on the common organization of the market in dried fodder
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 42 and 43 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2),
Whereas the Commission has submitted to the Council a proposal for a ' Regulation on the common organization of the market in potatoes , providing in particular for a system of aid for the dehydrated potatoes referred to ' in Article 1 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 1117/78 of 22 May 1978 on the common organization of the market in dried fodder (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1370/80 (4); whereas it is envisaged that the draft Regulation will not enter into force on 1, July 1981; whereas in order not to jeopardize the continuity of the system of aid for dehydrated potatoes, the existing arrangements should be continued for the 1981/82 marketing year ,
In the third paragraph of Article 17 of Regultion (EEC) No 1117/78 the date
"30 June 1981" is replaced by "30 June 1982".
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the
Official Journal of the European Communities. Lt shall apply with effect from 1 July 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at * For the Council
 COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No / 81 26 of
fixing the amounts of aid for fibre flax and hemp for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1308/70 of 29 June 1970 on the common organization of the market in flax and hemp (1), as last amended by the Act concerning the conditions of accession of the Hellenic Republic and the adjustments to the Treaties (2), and in particular Article 4(3) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 1308/70 provides that the amount of aid for flax grown mainly for fibre and for hemp grown in the Community shall be fixed annually;
Whereas , in accordance with Article 4(2 ) of that Regulation , this amount , shall be fixed per hectare of area sown and harvested so as to ensure an even balance between the volume of production required in the Community and the amount that can be marketed ; whereas , when it is fixed , account must be taken of the price for flax and hemp fibres and seeds on the world market, of the price for other competing natural products and of the guide price for linseed;
Whereas Article 68 of the Act lays down the criteria for fixing the amount of aid for fibre flax and for hemp in Greece;
 Whereas application of the abovementioned criteria entails fixing the amount at the level mentioned below;
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the aid provided for in Article 4 of Regulation (EEC) No 1308/70 shall be:
- 59*30ECU per hectare for Greece,
-296.48ECU per hectare for the other Member States;
- 53.85ECU per hectare for Greece.
-296.26ECU per hectare for the other Member States.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the
Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
on the financing of measures to encourage the use of flax fibres
for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2511/80 of 30 September 1980 on measures to encourage the use of flax fibres for the 1980/81 and 1981/82 marketing years (1), and in particular Article 2(2) and (3) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Regulation (EEC) No 2511/80 provides that Community measures to encourage the use of flax fibres should be taken for the 1980/81 and 1981/82marketingyears; whereas,underArticle2(3)ofthisRegulation, the estimated cost of these measures for the 1981/82 marketing year should befixed; whereastheportionoftheaidforfibreflaxwhichistobe used to finance part of the cost of these measures for the 1981/82 marketing year may, if necessary, be increased in relation to the amount fixed for the preceding year;
Whereas in order to take into account the increase in the amount of aid for flax and the estimated cost of the measures envisaged, the amounts set out below should be adopted,
1. For the 1981/82 marketing year the following portions of the aid for fibre flax fixed by Regulation (EEC) No /81 (2) shall be set aside for financing the measures referred to in Article 1 of Regulation
- for Greece: 2.97 ECU per hectare - for the other Member States: 14.82 ECU per hectare
2. The estimated cost of the measures referred to in Article 1 of
Regulation ( EEC) No 2511 / 80 amounts to 1,200,000 ECU for the 1981 / 82 marketing year.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No /81 of
fixing the amount of aid in respect of silkworms for the 1981/82 rearing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 845/72 of 24 April 1972 laying down special measures to encourage silkworm rearing (1), and in particular Article 2(3) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3),
Whereas Article 2 of Regulation (EEC) No 845/72 provides that the amount of aid for silkworms reared within the Community must be fixed each year in such a way as to help ensure a fair income for silkworm rearers, taking into account the state of the market in cocoons and raw silk, of foreseeable trends on that market and of import policy;
Whereas Article 68 of the Act concerning the conditions of accession of the Hellenic Republic and the adjustments of the Treaties (4) lays down the criteria for fixing the amount of aid for silkworms in Greece;
Whereas application of the abovementioned criteria entials fixing the amount of aid at the level mentioned below,
For the 1981/82 rearing year, the amount of aid in respect of silkworms as
referred to in Article 2 of Regulation (EEC) No 845/72 shall be fixed per box of silkworms eggs used,
- for the other Member States, at 78.33 ECU.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 April 1981. _ \'■■
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council
COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No ( of
f ixing , for the period
16 December. 1981 to 15 guide prices for wine
December 1982 , the
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 337/79 of 5 February 1979 on the common organization of the market in wine (1) as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No (2) and in particular Article 2 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas, when the guide prices for the various types of table wine are 1 fixed, account should be taken both of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community wishes to make to the harmonious development of world trade; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are, in particular, to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, to ensure that supplies are available and that they reach consumers at reasonable prices;
Whereas, to that end, the prices valid for the period 16 December 1981 to 15 December 1982 should be fixed^at higher levels than those adopted for the preceding period, particularly in view of trends in production tfosts;
Whereas the guide prices must be fixed for each type of table wine- representative of Community production as defined in Council Regulation (EEC) No 340/75 (5),
 Type of wine
In the Community as constituted before 1 January 1981
Whereas changes in the balance between production and consumption and in
the market situation have not been the same for all table wines; whereas. i
to take account of these differential changes, the guide price for type A I table wines should be raised by less than the prices for other types of table wine;
Whereas, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 58 and 59 of the Act of Accession of Greece (6), guide prices must also be fixed for application in Greece,
For the period 16 December 198 to 15 December 198 , the guide prices for table wines shall be :
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No of
fixing certain prices and other amounts applicable in the fruit and vegetables sector for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to the Act of Accession of Greece, and in particular Article 72(1 ) thereof .
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72 of 18 May 1972 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No (2), and in particular Article 16(1 ) thereof ,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2511/69 df 9 December 1969 laying down special measures for improving the production and marketing
of Community citrus fruit (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No (4), and in particular Article 7(2) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (5),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (6),
Whereas, pursuant to Article 16(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72, a basic price and a buying-in price are to be fixed for each marketing year for each of the products listed in Annex II to the said Regulation; whereas, iri accordance with Article 1(3) of the above Regulation, the marketing years for the products in question are as follows:
Whereas,
cauliflowers, from 1 May to 30 April, tomatoes, from 1 January to 31 December, peaches, from 1 May to 31 October,
lemons, from 1 June to 31 May,
pears, from 1 June to 31 May,
table grapes, from 1 May to 30 April, apples, from 1 July to 30 June, mandarins, from 1 October to 15 May, oranges, from 1 October to 15 July; -
however, pursuant to the third subparagraph of Article 16(1)
 of Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72, no basic price or buying-in price must be fixed for the slack marketing periods at the beginning and at the end of the marketing year;
Whereas, when the basic prices and buying-in prices for fruit and
vegetables are fixed, account should be taken of the aims of the common
agricultural policy and the contribution which the Community desires to
make to the harmonious development of world trade; whereas the objectives .1
of the common agricultural policy are in particular to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, and to ensure that supplies are available and reach consumers at reasonable prices;
Whereas, the basic prices must be fixed by reference to the trend in the average prices recorded during the three preceding years on the most representative producer markets within the Community for a product with defined commercial characteristics, such as variety or type, quality class, size and packaging; whereas the buying-in prices must be fixed by reference to the basic price in accordance with Article 16(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72;
Whereas, for cauliflowers and apples produced in Greece, Council Regulation (EEC) No /81 of provided for the application of common prices from 1 January 1971 (7); ,,
Whereas, for the other products whose marketing year was in progress at the time of the accession of Greece, Council Regulation (EEC) No /81 of fixed the basic and buying-in prices applicable in Greece for the part of the marketing year remaining after 1 January 1981 (8), and whereas for the products whose marketing year was over at the time of accession, the same Regulation laid down the difference between the average producer prices in Greece and in the Community of Nine; whereas pursuant to Articles 59 and 74 of the Act of Accession the first move
should be made towards alignment of Greek prices with the level of common prices ;
 Whereas the amount of the financial compensation for oranges, mandarins, /
Clementines and lemons must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid dbwn in Article 7(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2511/69; whereas, pursuant to Article 76 of the Act of Accession of Greece, such compensation is to be introduced in Greece according to the timetable laid down in Article
68(2)(b) of the Act, (
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the basic prices and the buying-in prices for fruit and vegetables, the periods during which they apply and the standard qualities to which they relate shall be as set out in Annex I.
For the 1981/82 marketing year, the financial compensation. for oranges, mandarins, Clementines and lemons shall be as set out in Annex II.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council The President
For the period from 1 May 1981 to 30 April 1982
October November December January February March April
These prices relate to the following packed products:
Buying-in price ECU/100 kg net
cauliflowers 'with leaves' of Quality Class I, for the months of May, November, December, January, February, March and April.
'trimmed' cauliflowers of Quality Class I, for the months of June, July, August, September and October.
For the period from 1 June to 30 November 1981 !•
Basic price Buying-in price ECU/100 kg net ECU/100 kg net
Greece Other Member Greece Other Member - States States
These prices relate to packed 'round' and 'ribbed' tomatoes of Quality Class I size 57/67 mm.
For the period from 1 June to 30 September 1981
Basic price Buying-in price ECU/100 kg net ECU/100 kg net
These prices relate to the following packed products:
peaches of the Fior di Maggio (May Flower) variety, Quality Class I, size 51/61 mm, for the month of June.
peaches of the Amsden, Charles Ingouf and Sant'Anna varieties, Quality Class I, size 61/67 mm, for the month of July,
peaches of the Red Haven and Fair Haven varieties Quality Class I, size 61/67 mm, for the month of August,
peaches of the J.H. Hale variety, Quality Class I, size 61/67 mm for the month of September.
For the period from 1 June 1981 to 31 May 1982
Basic price Buying-in price ECU/ 100 kg net ECU/ 100 kg net
Greece : Other Member Greece Other Member States States
November 29,46n December 28,89 January 29,80
Other Member Greece Other Member States States
These prices relate to packed lemons of Quality Class I, size 53/62 mm.
(other than perry pears)
For the period 1 July 1980 to 30 April 1981
July - 30.10 August 2'7.45
These prices relate to the following packed products:
January to April
Buying-in price ECU/lOO kg net
(a) pears of the Dr Jules Guyot variety, Quality Class I, size 60 mm or more, for the month of July; ,
(b) pears of the Dr Jules Guyot, Clapp's favourite and Bon Chretien Williams varieties, Quality Class I, size 60 mm or more, for the month of August;
<c> pears of the Bon Chretien Williams and Conference varieties. Quality ' Class I, size 60 mm or more for the months of September and October;
(d) - pears of the Conference and Alexandrine Douillard varieties, Quality Class I, size 60 mm or more, for the month of November,
- pears of the Passe-Crassane variety, Quality Class I, size 70 mm or more, for the month of November.
pears of the Conference variety. Quality Class I, size 60 mm or more, for the months December to April,
- pears of the Passe-Crassane variety, Quality Class I, size 70 mm or more, for the month December to April.
For the period 1 August to 31 October 1981 ,
Efasic price Buying–in price ECU/100 kg net ECU/100 kg net
Greece : Other Member Greece Other Member States States
These prices relate to packed table grapes of the Regina dei Vigneti, Regina (Mennavacca bianca) and Greek Rosaki (white, black) varieties, Quality Class I, »
(other than cider apples)
For the period 1 August 1981 to 31 May 1982
August 22,54 September 22,54 October 22,54 November 23,25 December 25,64 January to June 28,04
These prices relate to the following packed products:
Buying-in price ECU/100 kg net
(a) apples of the James Grieve variety, Quality Class I, size 70 mm or more, , for the month of August;
(b) - apples of the James Grieve and Golden Delicious varieties, Quality Class I, size 70 mm or more, for the month of September,
apples of the Reine des reinettes variety, Quality Class I, size ,65 mm or more, for the month of September;
(c) apples of the Golden Delicious variety. Quality Class I, size 70 mm or , more, for the months October to May.
For the period 16 November 1981 to 28 February 1982
16 to 30 November December
Basic price Buying-in price ECU/100 kg net ECU/100 kg net
Greece : Other Member Greece : Other Member States States
These prices relate to packed mandarins of Quality Class I, size 54/64 mm.
 December January February March
April and May
For the period 1 December 1981 to 31 May 1982
Basic price Buying-in price ECU/100 kg net ECU/100 kg net
Greece : Other Member Greece Other Member States States
These prices relate to the following packed products:
oranges of the Moro and Navel varieties. Quality Class I, size 67/80 mm/ for the month of December;
oranges of the Sanguinello and Navel varieties. Quality Class I, size 67/80 mm, for the months January to May.
NB: The prices quoted in this Annex do not include the cost of the packaging in which the product is presented.
Amount of financial compensation
For the 1981/82 marketing year (Greece) (OtherMemberStates)
ECU per 100 kilograms net for oranges of the Moro, Tarocco, Ovale valabrese, Belladonna, Navel and. Valencia late varieties,
ECU per 100 kilograms net for oranges of the Sanr- guinello variety,
ECU per 100 kilograms net for oranges of the San- guigno and Biondo comune varieties,
Financial compensation is granted only in respect of products be­ longing to Quality Classes Extra and I.
amending Regulation ( EEC ) No 2511 / 69 in respect of lemons and Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72 in respect of lemons ..
and preventive withdrawals of apples and" pears
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof, x
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament ( 1 ), i-\■
Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2), 4 .''':v'
Whereas Article 6 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2511/69 of 9 December 1969 laying down special measures for improving the production and marketing Of Community citrus fruit (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1367/80 (4) extended the granting of financial compensation for the marketing of lemons until the end of the 1980/81 marketing year;
Whereas these measures have encouraged the marketing of better quality products; whereas such a trend should be furthered by retaining these measures in the coming marketing year; whereas, therefore, when the reference price for lemons is calculated, account should not be taken of the transport costs as defined in Article 23 of Council Regulation (EEC)
No 1035/72 of 18 May 1972 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables (5), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1367/80,
 Whereas Article 15a of Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72 provides that preventive withdrawals may be authorized for apples and pears where the market
situation gives reason to fear a collapse of the market and heavy withdrawals and where producer prices fall below certain levels; whereas experience in the last two marketing years shows that the effectiveness of these
preventive withdrawals would be improved if the decision authorizing them could be taken solely on the basis of an examination of the market situation ;
In the second paragraph of Article 6 of Regulation (EEC) No 2511/69 ' 1 June 1981 1 is repLaced by '1 June 1982' .
Paragraph 1 of Article 15a of .Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72 is amended as follows :
"As regards apples and pears, if examination of the market situation and particularly of the volume of production shows that a collapse of the market and of heavy withdrawals of one or both of the products concerned are likely/ it may be decided, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 33, that the Member States may authorize producers' organi­ zations to withdraw, during the first months of the marketing year, a proportion of the products which comply with the minimum specifications of the quality standards in force.
If a producers' organization makes use of this authorization, it shall grant to member producers compensation, calculated on the basis of the withdrawal price referred to in Article 15, in respect of the quantities of products withdrawn.'
In the first indent of the first subparagraph of Article 23(2) of
Regulation (EEC) No 1035/72 '31 May 1981' is replaced by *31 May 1982'.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 June 1981 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels .
For the Council
amending Regulation (EEC) No 516/77 on the common organization
of the market in products processed from fruit and vegetables
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community- » . •/
and in particular Article 43 thereof.
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, ' \. ,■..
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament-
Whereas Article 3a of Council Regulation (EEC) No 516/77 (1) of 14 March 1977, as last amended by
introduced a system of production aid for certain processed products; whereas, if the situation provided for in paragraph 5 of Article 3a arises, it is possible to limit the grant of aid to a specific quantity based on average production in the three years preceding the marketing year for which the aid is fixed;
Whereas experience has shown that the final figures to be used for calculating average production over three years are sometimes not available intime; whereas,inordertoavoidthedisadvantageoffixingamaximum level on the basis of provisional data, provision should be made for the maximum level to be fixed on the basis of the most recent . reliable production data available;
 Whereas, for administrative reasons, this maximum Level should be amended only where changes in the market demand for the product warrant' such amendment ; - "
Paragraph 5 of Article 3a of Regulation (EEC) No 516/77 is amended as follows :
"5. Where the Community production potential for a product referred to in
Annex 1a is Likely tq cause a major imbalance between production and 41
market demand, the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, may decide to limit the granting of the production aid to a specific quantity. This quantity shall be fixed on the basis of average Community production in recent marketing years for which relaible figures are available . . The quantity may be amended on the basis of changes in market demand for the product concerned."
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its
publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. *
For the Council
limiting the production aid granted in respect of
certain products processed from fruit and vegetables
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 516/77 of 14 March 1977 on the common organization of the market in products processed from fruit and vegetables (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2021/80 (2), and in particular Article 3a(5),
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
χ, Whereas Article 3a of Regulation (EEC) No 516/77 introduced a system of
production aid for certain products processed from fruit and vegetables; whereas in the event of the situation provided for in paragraph 5 of the said Article arising it is possible to limit the granting of production aid to a quantity determined on the basis of average Community production in recent years for which reliable data are available ;
 Whereas there is a risk that this situation may arise for tomato-based products,speaches in syrup, William pears and cherries preserved in syrup, listed in Annex la to Regulation (EEC) No 516/77, and whereas the granting of production aid in respect of these products should therefore be limited during each marketing year to a quantity calculated in accordance with the criteria defined above; '
Whereas, for the main tomato-based products, production characteristics are such that the quantity units should be expressed in terms of fresh products
From the 1981/82 marketing year, the granting of production aid shall be
limited during each marketing year to the following quantities:
tonnes for tomato.concentrate falling within subheading ex 20.02 C of the Common Customs'Tariff;
- a quantity of whole peeled tom&toes falling within subheading ex 20.02 C of the Common Customs Tariff corresponding to 1 050 000 tonnes of fresh tomatoes ;
- 44 000 tonnes for peeled tomatoes, other than whole, falling within subheading ex 20.02 C of the Common Customs Tariff;
- 86 000 tonnes for tomato juice falling within the subheading ex 20.02 C of the Common Customs Tariff;
- 62 000 tonnes for tomato juice falling within the subheading ex 20.07 of the Common Customs Tariff; '
- 9 500 tonnes for frozen peeled tomatoes falling within subheading ex 07.02 B of the Common Customs Tariff;
- 400 tonnes for tomato flakes falling within subheading ex 07.04 B of the Common Customs Tariff;
- 289 000 tonnes for peaches in syrup falling within subheading ex 20.06 B of the Common Customs Tariff; i
- 74 100 tonnes for William pears preserved in syrup falling within, subheading ex 20.06 B of the Commorf Customs Tariff;
- 26 850 tonnes for Bigarreau cherries and other sweet cherries preserved in syrup falling within subheading ex 20.06 B of the Common Customs Tariff;
- 53 140 tonnes for Morello cherries preserved in syrup falling within subheading ex 20.06 B of the Common Customs Jariff.
These quantities include immediate packings where they refer to processed products .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from:
- 1 July 1981 for tomato-based products and for peaches in syrup;
- 15 July 1981 for William pears in syrup;
- 12 May 1981 for Bigarreau cherries and other sweet cherries preserved in
- 20 May 1981 for Morello cherries preserved in syrup.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council
amending Regulation (EEC) No 727/70 on the
common organization of the market in raw tobacco
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas Article 2(2), second subparagraph, of Council Regulation (EEC)
No 727/70 of 21 April 1979 on the common organization of the market in raw tobacco (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2), lays down that the intervention price for leaf tobacco is to be fixed at 90% of the corresponding norm price;
Whereas , although the policy' of favouring contract-growing has been reinforced and the measures provided for in Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70 for the control of the market have several times been put into effect, the Community tobacco market is characterized by structural surpluses due to an imbalance between Community production and demand;
Whereas, with a view to progressively re-establishing a better correlation between tobacco production and market requirements and reducing the heavy Community expenditure caused by the present situation, and in particular
 by the large surpluses, the minimum price at which producers may sell their tobacco should be redefined by means of a reduction in the guarantee for unsold quantities of tobacco; whereas the most suitable way of doing this is to reduce the intervention price from 90% of the norm price to 85% thereof ,
The second subparagraph of Article 2(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70 is amended to read :
"The intervention price shall be fixed at 85% of the corresponding norm price ".
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its
publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. It shall apply for the first time to leaf tobacco of the 1981 harvest.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
fixing for the 1981 harvest the norm and intervention prices and the
premiums granted to purchasers of leaf tobacco, the derived intervention prices for baled tobacco and the reference guantities
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 727/70 of 21 April 1970 on the
common organization of the market in raw tobacco (1), as last amended by .ι
Regulation (EEC) No s /81 (2), and in particular Articles 2(5), 4(4) and 6(8 ) thereof ,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament, , Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, Having regard to the opinion of the Monetary Committee,
Whereas, when fixing the prices for raw tobacco, account should be taken both of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community intends to make to the harmonious growth of world trade; whereas the aims of the common agricultural policy are, in particular, to provide the agricultural population with a reasonable standard of living, guarantee security of supplies and ensure fair prices for consumers : ^
 Whereas the norm and intervention prices for leaf tobacco must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 2(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70 in order in particular to encourage producers to convert to the cultivation of those varieties which are most competitive and most in demand ;
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No of laying down special measures for certain varieties of raw tobacco (1) provided for a reduction in the intervention price for the said varieties;
Whereas it is desirable to fix, in respect of the 1981 harvest, derived
intervention prices both for the varieties which, before the common
organization of the market came into force , or , in the case of varieties
grown in Greece prior to accession, were subject to a price guarantee at
the baled tobacco stage, and for the varieties which are mainly grown in
Germany, in order to take account of marketing practices in that country;
whereas , to this end , both increased costs and increased productivity
should be taken into consideration; i■
Whereas the premium granted to purchasers of Community tobacco is intended to enable them to pay producers of leaf tobacco a price which is at the level of the norm price, account being taken of the trend in world market prices and the level of prices established by supply and demand on the Community market;
Whereas the abovementioned prices and the amount of the premium must be fixed for each variety in relation to a reference quality defined in such a way that as objective an assessment as possible can be made of the quality of the tobacco; J
Whereas, in order better to reflect the market situation, a more precise definition should be given of the reference qualities of certain varieties of tobacco, both in leaf and baled, in respect in particular of the botanical and commercial characteristics; ■
Whereas a new assessment of the characteristics of the Forcheimer Havanna II C variety has led to its inclusion in the group of varieties
listed under the serial number 11 because of its similarity with the Nostrano del Brenta variety;
 Whereas since the signing of the Act of Accession, Greece has amended its classification of the varieties grown in that country, in particular by putting certain similar varieties together to make it more consistent with Community rules ; and whereas , therefore , from now on this new classification should be used instead of the classification given in
Annex' II to the Act of Accession;
Whereas under the provisions of Article 87(1) and of Article 58 of the Act of Accession of Greece (3), the intervention price to be applied in Greece for tobacco from the 1981 harvest shall be fixed at a level enabling tobacco producers to obtain market prices equivalent to those obtained, during a representative period to be determined, under the previous national system ; whereas it appears advisable to take the 1978 , 1979 and 1980 harvests as that reference period;
Whereas Article 87(2) of the Act of Accession of Greece provides that the norm prices corresponding to the intervention prices referred to above shall be fixed in Greece for the 1981 harvest at a level reflecting the relation existing between the norm price and the intervention price, in accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 2(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70; '
Whereas Regulation (EEC) No / (A) provides that for the tobacco sector from 1 June 1980 a new representative rate shall be applied to the currencies of certain Member States; whereas that provision should lead, as from that date , to a reduction , in terms of national currencies , of the premium fixed in units of account for a substantial part of the harvest in those Member States whose representative rate 'is revalued; whereas it seems more appropriate to the nature of this sector that the same conditions should apply to the entire harvest in a given year; whereas this objective can be achieved if the previous rate of exchange for the Member States concerned were to remain applicable to premiums paid for the 1980 harvest,
For the 1981 harvest the reference qualities for each of the varieties of
leaf tobacco of Community production, referred to in Article 2(3)(c) of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70, shall be as set out in Annex I.
For the 1981 harvest the reference qualities referred to in Article 6(3)(c)
of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70, for each of the varieties of baled tobacco of Community production in respect of which a derived intervention price is fixed, shall be as set out in Annex II. J -
For the 1981 harvest the norm and intervention prices and the amounts of
the premium granted to purchasers of leaf tobacco referred to in Articles 2 and 3 of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70, and the derived intervention prices
for baled tobacco referred to in Article 6 of the said Regulation, shall be as set out in Annex III .,
The exchange rate to be applied in the Federal Republic of Germny and the
Benelux countries for, the purposes ,of the premiums for the 1980 harvest .
shall , until ( 31 March ) 1982 , be the representative rate
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. ■ . > '
For the Council The President
Class 1 leaf
Typical character : thin to bodied ,
Leaf tobacco: varieties and their reference qualities for the 1981 harvest Sériai
Class 1 leaf
Typical character : Thin to bodied , elastic with open texture , leaf shape elongated ovate , rather strong brown midrib
leaf ripe , undamaged , brown to dark brown-greenish , mottled , of uniform development and good combustibility.
tobacco graded , tied in hands or in temporary bales with non-tobacco material
texture , leaf shape ovate fairly • thick brown midrib
to broad
leaf ripe , sound , undamaged , bodied , lively , reddish to medium brown colour , of uniform development and moderate combustibility .
tobacco graded , tied in hands or in temporary bales with non-tobacco material
leaves ripe , sound , supple , of uniform development and open texture , yellow to orange and of average combustibility.
tobacco graded , tied in hands or in temporary bales with non-tobacco material
a) Paraguay and hybrids thereof
Reference quality Class 2 middle leaf
Dragon vert and hybrids thereof, Philippin , Petit Grammont
leaves ripe , reasonably undamaged , brown to mottled or slightly bronzed ; minor defects in ripeness and colour and minor damage are allowed .
by position on plant ( lugs , middle leaves , top leaves ) in bales ( 20-40 kg), or in pallet cases (120-150
kg ); leaves loose or in hands .
hybrids thereof Rio Grande and
2nd quality : leaf fully developed , over not coarse grained , lively to
thereof
fairly lively light somewhat yellowish colour , reasonably firm and undamaged ; reasonably good combustibility .
Packaging: By quality , all positions in plant together , in bales at 20-30 kg ,
Either: leaf up to 50 cm in length,
texture , bodied , undamaged , and elastic , well ripened , brown to dark brown .
Or: leaf over 50 cm in length, sticky texture, bodied, still
undamaged , strong , with some colour defects .
and top
By position in plant
leaves ) in bales in hands or loose
( lugs of 40-50
leaf ripe , well cured , bodied ,
Category A leaf
Category A leaf
texture open , midribs and , not too prominent , sound ,
yellow to orange yellow ,
middle leaf , combustibility good .
by position in plant , leaves straight laid (loose leaf) in bales of 30-40 kg
Moisture : Category A leaf
leaf ripe , well cured , texture thin , open and supple , possibly
loose or in hands , made up in bales of 30-40 kg
leaf fully ripe , well cured ,
texture thin and open , midribs and . veins not prominent , sound , colour
a lively reddish brown , from the middle positions , combustibility perfect
loose or in hands , in bales of 30-40 kg
prominent , sound ,
not brown colour , from the middle positions, combustibility excellent
veins not too rather lively
Kentucky and hybrids thereof Moro di Cori Salento
Category B: leaf properly ripe , bodied , well cured and sound , brown , some
and similar varieties
Category B leaf
damage , mainly from upper middle and upper positions, combustibility very good
straight laid (loose leaf) or in hands, made up in bales at 30-40 kg
f Category B leaf
Category B: leaf reasonably sound and ripe , substantial to light , some curing
defects and damage, dark not brown in colour with a greenish tinge,
in good condition , as a general
, rule from ripe base and top
by position on plant , made up in bundles of
Category B: leaf reasonably ripe ,
coarse or thin texture , with
curing and storage defects and some damage , but having the
minimum .i|ualities required for intervention
in hands in bundles of 30-40 kg
Category B leaf
Category B: Leaf reasonably sound and not too
Erzegovina and similar varieties
Category B leaf •
developed ,, some curing defects allowable , light to moderately bodied , yellow to brown in colour , some damage but well preserved, lower leaves allowable, combustibility good
leaves stringed in cases with internal supports ("cassa a crociera") of 30-40 kg or made up in bales of 15-20 kg
Moisture : Category B leaf
Leaf reasonably sound and ripe,
developed , some curing
not too
reddish clour , some damage but . well preserved , base leaves allowable , combustibility good
leaves stringed in cases with internal supports ("cassa a crociera") of 30-40 kg or made up in bales of 15-20 kg
allowable , texture mostly yellow to brown , possibly
Category B: Leaf reasonably sound and ripe,
not too developed , some curing defects allowable , texture mostly light, yellow to brown in colour, some damage but well preserved, base leaves allowable,- combustibility good
leaves stringed in cases with
1 crociera") of 30-40 kg or made up
in bales of 15-20 kg 17%
Lower middle leaf , sorted by length in the following proportions:
Leaf of convenient size , properly ripe and of uniform colour , sound , undamaged , fine , strong and elastic texture , midribs and veins submerged , properly fermented and well
preserved , combustibility good , of typical flavour and aroma , suitable for wrapping cigars , including about 25% broken leaf.
by position on the plant , in hands ' 22%
Quality I/III leaves
Category B leaf Category B:
cured , from all positions on the
undamaged , sound , well
- plant except the first ("protomana") , up to 15 cm long , colour
golden-yellow, orange to yellow-red, with good elasticity , shiny , fairly bodied , porous structure and fine texture , good combustibility .
Leaf as described above constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe showing slight damage and/or curing defects , with slight disease blemishes ,- from all positions on the plant, up to 20 cm long, colour light yellow , yellow-green , reddish or light brown , with fairly porous structure and fine texture, medium elasticity , moderately shiny and bodied , very good combustibility .
18 Katerim and similar
Leaf as described above constitutes 55% of quality 1/111.
Growers' bales of 15 to 25 kg, formed
in the traditional way from two rows , ofpastais(leavesstraightlaid).
In the districts of Astakos and
Chrysoupolis packing is in . "armathodema").
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
plant except the first ("protomana"), up to 20 cm long, colour light yellow or orange to reddish, of porous structure, good elasticity, shiny, fairly bodied, fine texture and very good combustibility.
Leaf as above constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe with slight damage and/or curing defects, with slight disease blemishes, from all positions on the plant, up to 25 cm long, colour yellow, orange, yellow-green, reddish or light brown, of porous structure, moderately bodied, fine texture and very good combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes 55% of quality I/III.
Strings are usually bulked using the "Baski" system before packing. Packing is in bales of 25-35 kg using traditional "Kaloup" system.
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
plant except top leaves, up to 25 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and to 20 cm long for Karatzova and Kontoula, of moderate to deep yellow colour, good elasticity, shiny, of porous structure, fine texture and excellent combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes 47% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe, with some slight damage and/or curing defects, from all. positions on the plant, up to 30 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and 25 cm long for Karatzova and Kontoula, colour yellow, yellow-green, reddish, of fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture, medium elasticity and moderately shiny, excellent combustibility .
Leaf as described above constitutes 53% of quality I/III.
Growers' bales of 15-30 kg, made up in the traditional form of two rows of "armathodema".
20 a) Kaba Koulak Quality I/III leaves non-classic
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
30 cm long for Macedonia Kaba Koulak and Trapezous, 20 cm long for
ElassonaandPhi1 and15cmlong for .Myrodata Smyrnis, of light yellow to reddish colour, good elasticity, shiny, fairly porous structure, fine texture and excellent combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes 47% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged,
* with slight curing defects,, from all positions on the plant, up to 35 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and Trapezous, 25 cm long for Elassona and Phi 1 and 20 cm long for Myrodata Smyrnis, of yellow, yellow-green or light brown colour, of fairly porous structure, fairly fine texture, fairly elastic and shiny, very good combustibility.
Growers' bales of 25-35 kg, made up . usingthetraditional"armathodema"
system or of 35-50 kg using the "Kaloup" system •-
Quality I/III leaves
Zichnomyrodata Quality I/III leaves
the plant except the first ("protomana"), up to 25 cm long, of yellow to deep orange colour, of good elasticity, shiny, porous structure, fine texture and excellent combustibi­ lity.
Leaf as described above constitutes ■47% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, slight curing defects, from all positions on the plant, up to 30 cm long, of yellow, yellow-green or light reddish colour, fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture, fairly elastic and shiny, excellent combustibility .
Leaf as described above constitutes 53% of quality I/III.
Growers' bales of 15-30 kg made up in the traditional way in two rows of
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, without curing defects, from all positions on
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, without curing defects, from all positions on
the plant except top leaves, up to 20 cm long, light yellow to light orange colour, good elasticity, shiny, porous structure, fine texture; excellent combustibility. Leaf as described above constitutes 47% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects, from all positions on the plant, up to 25 cm long, colour yellow, yellow-green or light reddish, fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture, fairly elastic and shiny; excellent combustibility .
Quality I/III leaves
Leaf ripe ,, undamaged , sound , without curing defects , from all positions on the plant except the first
(" protomana ") , up to 35 cm long , colour yellow-red , orange to reddish , of porous structure , elastic and shiny , fairly bodied , fine texture and very good combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes 45% of quality I/Ill.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with minor curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to AO cm
Growers' bales of 15-30 kg made up in the traditional way in two rows of
yellow-green ,
fairly porous
elastic and shiny , fairly fairly fine texture , very good
reddish or structure ,
light brown , fairly
combustibility ; includes
slight disease blemishes and/or minor
Leaf as described above constitutes
55% of quality I/III.
Growers' bales of 30-40 kg, made up in two rows of "armathodema"
leaves with
Quality A leaves
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, without curing defects , from all positions on
Quality A:
Leaf fully ripe ,
undamaged , sound ,
defects , from the
position , of uniform medium nut-brown to nut- red colour , porous structure , fine texture , excellent combustibility .
the plant except the first
(" protomana ") , up to 30 cm long , colour yellow-reddish or orange to
with porous structure , fine
elastic and shiny , fairly bodied , good combustibility .
Leaf as described above constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, showing minor curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 40 cm long , colour yellowish , yellow-green (lemon), reddish or light brown, fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture , fairly elastic and
shiny , fairly bodied , of good combustibility ; includes also leaves with slight disease blemishes and/or minor damage.
Growers. 1 bales of 30-50 kg made up in two rows of "armathodema"
fully developed , without curing middle stalk
Growers '1 bales of 40 kg, made up in two rows of "armathodema", no strings (leaves loose)
Quality A leaves
Quality A:
Leaf fully ripe, fully developed, sound, undamaged, without curing defects , of uniform lemon yellow to - medium orange colour, well bodied, fine texture and good combustibility, mainly from the middle stalk position.
Growers' bales of 30-40 kg, made up in two rows 6f "armathodema", no strings (leaves loose)
Baled tobacco: varieties arid their reference qualities for the 1981 harvest
Typical character: thin to bodied, elastic open texture, leaf shape elongated ovate, rather thick brown midrib, well fermented
Class 1 leaf
leaf ripe, sound, undamaged, brown to dark brown, of uniform development, combustibility very good
in bales, cases or cartons of 75 to 200 kg or in barrels of approximately 225 to 450 kg
Typical character: thin to bodied, open texture, leaf shape ovate to elongated ovate, rather thick brown midrib, fermented normally
leafripe, undamaged, bodied,'lively uniform reddish brown to mid brown colour, of uniform development, ' combustibility fairly good. ·
in bales or cases of 75 to 175 kg or barrels of 225 to 450 kg
leaf ripe, sound, supple, undamaged, of porous texture, lively yellow to orange in colour, of uniform development, combustibility moderate
in bales or cases of 75 to 175 kg or barrels of 225 to 450 kg
Category A leaf
Category A leaf
Category A: leaf fully ripe , well cured , texture thin and open, midribs and veins not
Category A leaf
leaf ripe , well cured , open texture , midrib and veins not too prominent, sound , yellow or orange yellow , mainly from the middle leaves, combustibility good
in bulk in barrels of 300 to 400 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg
leaf ripe , without curing defects , fine and open texture , soft ,
in bulk in barrels of 300 to 420 kg
or cartons of 180 to 200 kg 13%
not too
from the middle leaves, .suitable for storage , combustibility excellent
bodied , midrib and veins prominent , sound , nut brown ,
in bulk in barrels of 300 to 420 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg
prominent , sound / colour a .
lively brown , from middle leaves ,
good , distinct pleasant combustibility perfect
Category B leaf
Kentucky and ' hybrids thereof Moro di Cori Salento
Category B: leaf properly ripe, bodied, well cured and sound, brown, some damage,
vaggio and similar varieties
Category B leaf
Category B: leaf bodied or light, sound, without curing defects, brown or possibly -
■ generallyfrommiddleandupper positions, part suitable for the wrapper of and all suitable for the fillers of dark cigars
straight laid (leaves loose) or in bulk in barrels of 300 to 420 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg
fairly aromatic, combustibility good, sufficiently fermented
straight laid (leaves loose) or in bulk in juts bales of 170 to 180 kg
Category B leaf
Category B: leaf reasonably ripe, possibly coarse or thin, some curing and fer­
mentation defects and some damage.
in bulk in jute bales of 160 to 180 kg, barrels of 300 to 420 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg .
Category B leaf
Category B: leaf reasonably sound and ripe ,, not too developed , some curing defects
Erzegovina and , similar varieties
Category B leaf V
Category B: leaf reasonably sound and ripe, not too developed , some curing defects
allowable , 'texture mostly light , yellow to brown^.in colour , some damage but well preserved, base
• leaves allowable , flavour passable , aroma adequate , combustibility good , sufficiently fermented
small baies of 18 to' 20 kg 17%
allowable , texture mostly light , yellow to brown , possibly reddish colour , some damage but well preserved , base leaves allowable , flavour passable , aroma adequate , combustibility good , sufficiently fermented
small baies ôf 18 to 20 kg 13%
some damage but leaf from lower
Category Β: leaf reasonably sound and ripe , not too developed, some curing defects allowable , light to medium-bodied ,
yellow, to brown ,
well preserved ,
positions allowable, combustibility good , sufficiently fermented
small bales of 18 to 20 kg 13% ■■ ·.·,.
Category B leaf
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, all positions on- the plant
Lower middle leaf, sorted by length in the following proportions:
Leaf of convenient size, properly ripe and of Uniform colour, sound, undamaged, fine, strong and elastic texture, midribs and veins ' submerged, properly fermented and well preserved( combustibility good, of typical flavour and aroma, suitable for wrapping cigars, " including about 25% of broken leaf
in bales of 70 to 90 kg or cartons ■ of180to200kg
except the first ("protomana"), up to 15 cm long, i colour golden-yellow, orange to yellow-red, with good elasticity and shiny, fairly bodied, porous structure and fine texture, good combustibility
Leaf as described above (I/II) constitutes 40% of quality I/III
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects and slight disease blemishes, up to
20 cm long, colour light yellow, reddish or light brown, with fairly porous structure and fine texture, medium elasticity, moderately shiny and bodied, very good combustibility Leaf as described above (III) constitutes 55% of quality I/III
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg ;
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
Kateram and similar varieties
Quality I/III leaves -
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
plant except top leaves, up to
25 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and to 20 em long for Karatzova and Kontoula, of moderate to deep yellow colour, good elasticity, shiny, of porous structure, fine texture, and excellent combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes 47% of quality I/II
plant except the first ("protomana"), up to 20 cm long, colour light yellow or orange to reddish, of porous structure, good
elasticity, shiny, fairly bodied,
fine texture and very good ~ ; combustibility.
' Leaf as described above (I/II) constitutes 45% of quality I/III Leaf ripe with slight damage and curing defects, with slight disease blemishes, from all positidns on the plant, up to 25 cm long, colour yellow, orange, yellow-green, reddish or light brown, of porous structure, fairly bodied, fine texture and very good combustibility Leaf as described above constitutes 55% of quality I/III
* Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
Leaf ripe with some slight damage and/or curing defects, from all positions on the plant, up to 30 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and 25 cm long for Karatzova and Kontoula, of yellow to reddish colour, of fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture, medium elasticity, shiny, excellent combu­ stibility
< . Leaf as described above constitutes 53% of quality I/Ill
Quality I/III leaves -
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well
cured, from all positions on the plant except top leaves, up to 30 cm long for Macedonia Kaba Koulak and Trapezous, 20 cm long
, for Elassona and Phi 1, and 15 cm long for Myrodata Smyrnis, of light yellow to reddish colour, good elasticity, shiny, fairly porous
.structure, fine texture and excellent combustibility. . Leaf as described above (I/II)
constitutes 47% of quality I/III Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight' curing defects, from all positions on the plant, up to 35 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and Trapezous, 25 cm long for Elassona and Phi 1, and 20 cm long for Myrodata Smyrnis, of yellow to light brown colour, fairly porous structure, fairly fine texture, fairly elastic and shiny, very good combustibility
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
Quality I/III leaves
undamaged ,
cured, from all positions on the plant except the first ("protomana"), up to 25 cm long, of yellow to deep orange colour , of good elasticity , shiny , porous structure , fine texture and - excellent combustibility.
Leaf as described above ( I / II ) constitutes 47% of quality I/III Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 30 cm long, of yellow to light reddish colour , fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture ,
Leaf as described above constitutes 53% of quality I/III
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately
fairly elastic
combustibility .
Leaf as described above ( III )
constitutes 53% of quality I/III
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
and shiny , excellent
light orange in colour, good elasticity, shiny, porous structure, fine texture and excellent combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes
47% of quality I/III
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects, from all positions on the plant,sup to 25 cm long, of yellow to light reddish colour, fairly porous structureandfairlyfinetexture, * fairly elastic and shiny, excellent
Leaf as described above (III) constitutes 53% of quality I/III
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30kg '
Quality I/III leaves
plant except top leaves, up to 20 cm long, from light yellow to
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
plant except the first ("protomana"), up to 30 cm long,
colour yellow-red, orange to reddish, of porous structure, elastic and shiny, fairly bodied, fine texture and very good combustibility.
Leaf as described above (I/II) constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
Quality I/III leaves
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with minor curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 40 cm long , colour from light yellow to reddish or light brown , fairly porous structure , fairly elastic and shiny , fairly bodied ^ fairly fine texture , very good combustibility ; includes also
leaves with slight disease blemishes and/or minor damage.
Baies ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
Leaf ripe , undamaged , sound , well cured , from all positions on the plant except the first
(" protomana ") , up to 30 cm long , colour yellow-reddish or orange to
porous structure , elastic and shiny ,
reddish , with
fairly bodied , good combustibility . Leaf as described above constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with minor curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 40 cm long , colour from yellowish to reddish or light brown , fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture , fairly elastic and shiny , fairly bodied , of good combustibility ; includes also
leaves with slight disease blemishes and/or minor damage.
Leaf as described above constitutes 55% of quality I/III.
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately
Quality A leaves
Quality A:
ripe , sound ,
fully well
developed , cured , from
Moisture : Quality A leaves
Leaf fully ripe , fully developed , from the middle stalk position,
sound , undamaged , well cured ,, of a - uniform lemon yellow to medium orange colour , fine texture and good combustibility .
Bales of approximately 100 kg. 13%
undamaged ,
the middle stalk position , of uniform medium nut-brown to nut-red colour , porous structure , fine texture , excellent combustibility. .
Bales of approximately 100 kg , cases of approximately 200 kg or barrels of 240 to 280 kg
a) Paraguay and its hybrids
b) Dragon vert and its hybrids,
6 a) Misionero and its hybrids b) Rio Grande and its hybrids
10 a) Kentucky and its hybrids
(1) Pursuant to Regulation (EEC) No
for certain varieties of raw tobacco from the 1981, 1982 and 1983 harvests. ' • *
, laying down special measures
Erzegovina and similar varieties
Katerini and similar
a) Kaba Koulak non-classic b) Elassona, Myrodata Smyrne,
Trapezous and PHI 1
laying down special measures for certain varieties of raw tobacco .
from the 1981, 1982 and 1983 harvests '
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 727/70 of 21 April 1970 establishing a common organization of the market in raw tobacco (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No /81, and in particular the second subparagraph of Article 13(8 ) thereof ,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas the Commission report provided for in Article 13(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70 discloses a significant increase in the quantities of
Kentucky tobacco taken into intervention from the harvests of 1978 and 1979; whereas those quantities greatly exceeded the quantities and the percentage of production laid down by Regulation (EEC) No 1469/70 (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No /81 (4), which constitute the threshold initiation of the procedures laid down in Article 13 of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70;
 Whereas the same report shows that despite the application of the specific measures adopted by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1557/79 of 26 July 1979 (5) the quantities of Erzegovina and Perustitza tobacco taken into intervention from the 1978 and 1979 harvests were still greatly in excess of the abovementioned quantities and percentage; '
Whereas the market for Xanti-Yaka tobacco is still marked by an imbalance
which was attributed in 1979 to exceptional and not structural difficulties; whereas the persistence qf these difficulties suggests a different assessment, warranting the adoption of the same treatment as that given to Perustitza and Erzegovina tobacco;
Whereas the figures for the 1980 harvest indicate that the imbalance is becoming worse for the varieties mentioned in the Commission report;
Whereas it is now necessary to have recourse to the specific measures
provided for in Article 13(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70, namely a
reduction in the intervention price and a limit on intervention buying for
part of all qualities of the varieties in question; v.»''.
Whereas , if market equilibrium is to be restored these measures should be
applied to several consecutive harvests; \-•■-■
Whereas the measures provided for will yield a reduction in intervention expenditure and will allow a compensatory increase in the premium; whereas the producers will therefore be able to obtain the target price for the quantities which can be sold on the market in the normal way, thus improving their earnings; whereas a proposal for an aid programme in this sector would therefore not be justified,
For the 1981, 1982 and 1983 harvests, the intervention prices for tobacco of Kentucky , Xanti-Yaka , Perustitza and Erzegovina varieties shall be reduced from 90% to 80% of the corresponding norm prices.
For the 1981, 1982 and 1983 harvests the quantities of all qualities of
Kentucky , Xanti-Yaka , Perustitza , Erzegovina and similar varieties of tobacco eligible for intervention shall be limited as follows:
(a) for the Kentucky variety, 80%, 60% and 40% of the average quantities of this variety taken over by the intervention agency from the 1978, 1979 and 1980 harvests respectively ; ,
for the Xanti-Yaka , Perustitza , Erzegovina and similar varieties , 75%, ,55% and 32% of the average quantities of each of these varieties taken over by the intervention agency from the 1978, 1979 and 1980 harvests
respectively .
Detailed rules of application, in particular of the rules on reduction
applicable to all sellers of tobacco to the intervention agency\ shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17 of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its
publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council
Article 13(1) of the basic regulation on tobacco (Reg. No 727/70 of 21 April 1970) provides that where, for a variety or a group of varieties, the quantities taken over by the intervention agencies exceed, for a particular crop, a stated percentage of the production, and in any case a stated quantity, the Commission must submit a report to the Council. This report, which is being presented to the Council together with the 1981 price proposals indicates the probable reasons for the crisis affecting Oriental tobacco (Xanti, Perustitza, Erzegovina) and the Kentucky variety, namely:
- the imbalance between supply and demand on the world market;
- the expansion of production resulting from considerable increases in
- the fall in the quality of Community-grown Oriental tobacco, as a result
of genetic deterioration of the seed used and the adoption of irrational
All these factors have reinforced the trend towards .the formation of very substantial intervention stocks.
1. In September 1978 the Commission presented to the Council a report on
the crisis affecting Oriental tobacco. Following this report, the
Council adopted certain measures (Reg. No. 1557/79 of 24 July 1979) . to improve the market for the Perustitza and Erzegovina varieties
only; Xanti was excluded, since the difficulties affecting this variety were considered not to be of a structural nature. The measures taken by the Council consisted in the lowering of the intervention price from 90 to 80% (of the norm price) for the 1979 and 1980 harvests. These measures have proved insufficient. y The quantities of the Oriental varieties offered to the intervention agencies have increased, with a further decline in sales of Xanti, thus confounding optimistic forecasts that the situation could be retrieved by normal management of the market.
The total quantities of Oriental tobacco offered to the intervention agencies have been as follows:
6 000 t (baled tobacco) = 6 89A t of leaf tobacco 11 000 t (baled tobacco) = 12 639 t of leaf tobacco 5 500 t (baled tobacco) = 6 320 t of leaf tobacco
2. The conclusion to be drawn is that, for two successive crops, both the ceilings fixed by the Council (Regulation No (EEC) 1469/70) have been exceeded: both the maximum of 20% of production and the absolute quantity of A 000 tonnes.
It follows that, if production is to be steered in the desired direction, one or more of the specific measures provided for in Article 13(A) of Regulation No 727/70 should be introduced:
- lowering of the intervention price level;
3. This being the case, and account being taken of the fact that in its 1981 price proposals the Commission advocates the adoption of specific measures to reduce the intervention price and limit the quantities eligible for intervention. To achieve their purpose, these measures would have to apply to three successive crops (1981-82-83), in view of the particular nature of the production and processing structures (small-scale growers and large numbers of processing establishments) and the regions concerned (Italian Mezzogiorno).
A. The reduction in the annual quantities of baled tobacco for which intervention is guaranteed (estimated at some 1 700 t, which is equivalent to 1 950 t of leaf tobacco) should have the automatic effect of reducing the volume of production by an equivalent amount , given the state of the market (the quantities marketed have stabilised at approximately 16 000 t).
The Commission has therefore examined (Article 13(7)) the consequences which the measures now proposed to the Council would have for employment and the producers' standard of living. The proposed measures are expected to have little or no effect on either. The Commission intends to reallocate as premiums the annual expenditure (approximately A.5 million ECU) which would otherwise have been incurred through intervention buying of 1 950 t. Compensation will be related to the value of the reduced crop, calculated at the intervention price, which is now in fact the same as the market price which growers obtain, in view of the present state of the market.
The increase in the premium should enable buyers to pay growers the norm price (+ 11% of the intervention price) for the remainder of themarketedcrop(16000t=18000tofleaftobacco). The average intervention price (2.150 EU/kg) plus 11* comes to approximately 2.38 ECU/kg, which means an extra 4.4 million ECU overall -for the 18 000 t of tobacco marketed.
The quantities offered for intervention have been as follows:
1978 2 400 t (baled tobacco) = 2 726 + of leaf tobacco
1979 2 500 t (baled tobacco) = 2 840 t of leaf tobacco
1980 2 100 t (baled tobacco) = 2 385 t of leaf tobacco
Thus , both the percentage and the quantities fixed by the Council ,have been exceeded (Regulation No 1469/70). Thereasonsforthemeasurestobeappliedinrespectofthisvariety, - and the measures themselves, are the same as those outlined above in connection with the Oriental varieties (cf. 1.3 and 1.4),
In short, the annual expenditure (some 1.0 million ECU) which would have been incurred through the intervention buying of approximately
530 t of leaf tobacco will be transferred to the premium. The latter will make production more competitive, ensuring that the grower will obtain a price very close to the norm price instead of a market price which is in fact the same as the intervention price.
Quantity marketed Intervention
(tonnes of baled tobacco)
Methods and estimates
Aim: to limit the quantities from the 1983 crop offered for intervention to 2 400 t, i.e. 15% of the production marketed normally from the three reference crops.
Quantities accepted for intervention
1981 = 75% of the average quantity accepted in 1978-79-80 ,
1982 = 55% of the average quantity accepted in 1978-79-80
1983 = 32% of the average quantity accepted in 1978-79-80
This will mean rates of reduction to be applied at each undertaking in accordance with rules to be adopted by the Management Committee procedure.
Compensatory measures
The annual expenditure which would have been incurred through intervention in respect of 1 700 t (= approximately 1 950 t of leaf tobacco) will be transferred to the premium.
Estimated intervention expenditure (on 1 950 t), broken down by variety
Quantity marketed Intervention
(tonnes of baled tobacco)
Aim: to limit the quantities from the 1983 crop offered for intervention to 900 t, i.e. 15% of the production marketed normally from the three reference crops.
Quantities accepted for intervention
1981 = 80% of the quantities accepted in 1978-79-80
1982 = 60% of the quantities accepted in 1978-79-80
1983 = 40% of the quantities accepted in 1978-79-80
This will mean rates of reduction to be applied at each undertaking in accordance with rules to be adopted by the Management Committee procedure.
Compensatory measures -
The annual expenditure which would have been incurred through intervention in respect of 470 t (= approximately 530 t of leaf tobacco) will be transferred to the premium. -
 , Draft proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No /81
fixing the amounts of aid granted for seeds' for the
1982/83 and 1983/84 marketing years
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community , and in particular Article 43 thereof, . 1
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2358/71 of 26 October 1971 on the common organization of the market in seeds (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular Article 3(3) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas the present situation and probable future trend on the Community market for seeds listed in the Annex to Regulation (EEC) No 2358/71 and which will be marketed during the 1982/83 and-1983/84 marketing years do not ensure fair returns for the producer; whereas part of the production costs should therefore be offset by the granting of aid;
Whereas Article 3(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 2358/71 provides that, when the aid is being fixed, account must be taken, on the one hand, of the need to ensure a balance between the volume of production required in the Community and of the possible outlets for that production, and on the other. hand of the price of the product concerned on the external markets;
 Whereas the amounts of aid for seeds applicable in Greece in respect of the 1980/81 and 1981/82 marketing years were fixed by Council Regulation (EEC) No /81of 1981(3); whereas,onthatbasisandonthe criteria set out in Article 68 of the Act of Accession of Greece , the amounts of aid applicable in Greece in respect of the 1982/83 and 1983/84 marketing years should be fixed at the levels set out in the Annex to this Regulation, 1
The amounts of the aid referred to in Article 3 of Regulation (EEC)
No 2358/71 and which is granted for seeds shall be as set out in the Annex hereto .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
fixing the target price for milk and the intervention prices for butter ,
skimmed-milk powder and Grana Padano and Parmigiano Reggiano cheeses for the 1981/82 milk year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
on the Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 804/68 of 27 June 1968 on the
common organization of the market in milk and milk products (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular Articles 3(4) and 5(1) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas, when fixing the common agricultural prices, account should be taken of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community desires to make to. the harmonious development of world trade; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are in particular to secure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community and to ensure that supplies are available and that they reach the consumers at reasonable prices;
 Whereas the target price for milk should bear a balanced relationship to the prices for other agricultural products and in particular to the prices for beef and veal , and be consistent with the proposed orientation of cattle farming; whereas it is also necessary, in fixing that price, to take account of the Community 's efforts to establish a long term balance between supply and demand on the milk market, allowing for external trade in milk and milk products;
Whereas the intervention prices for butter and for skimmed-milk powder are - designed to contribute to the achievement of the target price for milk; whereas it is necessary to determine price levels in the light of the overall supply and demand situation on the Community market in milk and the opportunities for disoosal of butter and skimmed-milk powder on the Community and world markets; .
Whereas the intervention prices for Grada Padano and Parmigiano Reggiano cheeses must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid down in
Article 5(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 804/68;
Whereas the market situation makes it necessary to increase the target price for milk in two stages, which implies that the intervention prices also be increased by stages;
For the 1981/82 milk year, the target price for milk and the intervention
prices for milk products shall be as follows:
from 1.4.1981 (a) target price for milk 23,60
from 16.9.1981 24,04
- of an age of between 30 to 60 days - of an^age of at least six months Parmigiano Reggiano cheese of
an age of at least six months
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 April 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council
fixing the threshold prices for certain milk products
for the 1981/82 milk year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof, .
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 804/68 (1) of 27 June 1968 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products, as last
amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2) , and in particular Article 4 thereof, » " '
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas threshold prices should be fixed so that, taking account of the protection required for the Community processing industry, the prices of imported milk products correspond to the level of the target price for milk ; whereas , consequently , the threshold price should be fixed on the basis of the target price for milk, taking into account the relationship which should be established between the value of milkfat and that of ~ skimmed milk, as well as the standardized costs and yields for each of the milk products in question; whereas a fixed amount should be included to ensure adequate protection of the Community processing industry;
Whereas threshold prices should be fixed for the trading stage at which imported milk products first come into competition with milk products manufactured within the Community, i.e. the 'delivered free wholesaler' stage ,
1. The threshold prices for the 1981/82 milk year shall be as follows:
Pilot product of the qroup of products
2. The pilot products referred to in paragraph 1 are those described in Annex 1 to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2915/79 (3) of 18 December 1979 determining the groups of products and the special provisions for calculating levies on milk and milk products, as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No /81 (4).
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 April 1981 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, For the Council
amending Regulation (EEC) No 2915/79 in respect of the conditions of entry for certain kinds of cheese falling within certain tariff headings, and amending Regulation (EEC) No 950/68 on the
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 80A/68 of 27 June 1968 on the common organization of the market in milk and mij.k products (1), as last amended by. the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular
Article 14(6) thereof, . x
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Annex II to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2915/79 o£ 18 December 1979 determining the groups of products and the special provisions for calculating levies on milk and milk products (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No /81 (A), lays down certain conditions for the entry into the Community of Emmenthal, Gruyere, Sbrinz, Bergkase and Appenzell. cheeses falling within subheading OA.OA A I, of Cheddar cheese falling within subheading OA.OA. E I b) 1 of the Common Customs Tariff and other cheeses intended for processing and falling within subheading OA.OA E I b) 5 aa); whereasthoseconditionsindludethefree-at-frontiervaluesasbound under GATT; whereas the said values should be adjusted to the target price
for milk and the* threshold price for group 10 in the Community as fixed for *
in the 1981/82 milk year;
 Whereas, as regards subheading OA.04 A I of the Common Customs Tariff, following the new agreement with Switzerland the description of goods should be amended by the addition of two other cheeses, as also the definition of "pieces" of the cheeses in question; whereas it has also been agreed with Switzerland that the free-at-frontier value of processed cheeses falling within subheading 04.04 D I of the Common Customs Tariff should be raised;
Whereas the minimum import prices listed in Article 11 of Regulation (EEC) No 2915/79 for Tilsit, Butterkase, Kashkaval and cheese of sheep's milk or buffalo milk should also be adjusted to take account of world price trends;
Whereas the tariff nomenclature resulting from the application of Regulation (EEC) No 2915/79 is reflected in the Common Customs Tariff,
Article 11 of Regulation (EEC) No 2915/79 is amended to read as follows:
When it is observed that the price on importation into the Community from non-member countries of products falling within Group li, originating in and coming from those non-member countries, is not less than:
- 201.34 ECU per 100 kilograms, in the case of products falling within subheading 04.04 E I b) 2,
- 213.43 ECU per 100 kilograms, in the case of products falling within subheading 04.04 E I b) 3,
- 199.30 ECU per 100 kilograms, in the case of products falling within subheading 04.04 E I b) 4,
 the levy applicable per
100 kilograms shall be equal:
within subheading 04.04 E I b ) 201.34 ECU;
if the product falls threshold price less
to the
if the product falls price less 213.43 ECU;
within subheading 04.04 E I b )
the sum of 3. if the product falls within subheading 04.04 E I b) 2 bb), to the sum of
the following components:
( a ) a component equal to the levy calculated in accordance with point 1 ; (b) a component equal to 24.18 ECU.".
Annex II to Regulation (EEC) No 2915/79 is amended as follows:
1. The descriptions of goods falling within subheadings 04.04 A, 04.04 D I, 04.04. E I b) 1 and 04.04. E I b) 5 (aa) are replaced:
- with effect from 1 April 1981, by those set out in Annex 1 to this
- with effect from 16 September 1981, by those set out in Annex II to
this Regulation. ,
2. The following two indents are added to Note 4(a): /
- Vacherin fribourgeois: not less than 6 kg but not more than 10 kg, - Tete de moine: not more than 0.700 kg but not more than 4 kg."
1. The Common Customs Tariff annexed to Regulation (EEC) No 950/68 is amended as follows :
(a) with effect from 1 April 1981:
- as shown in Annex III to this Regulation,
- by replacement of "208.53 ECU" in note (b) relating to subheading
04.04 E It) 1 by 232.76 ECU" and
 - by replacement OA.04 E I b) 1
of "184.35 ECU" in note (c) relating to subheading by 208.58 ECU";
(b) with effect from
IV to this Regulation,
"232.76 ECU" in note (b) relating to subheading "237.45 ECU" and
"208.58 ECU" in note (c) relating to subheading "213.27 ECU".
16 - as shown in Annex f by replacement of 04.04 E I b) 1 by - by replacement of 04.04 E I B) 1 by
2. Subheading 04.04 A of the Common Customs Tariff Annex is amended as shown in Annex V to this Regulation with effect from 1 April 1981.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 April 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council
(applicable with effect from 1 April 1981)
Cheese and curd:
I. Of a minimum fat content of 45% by weight, in the dry matter , matured for at least two months in the
case of Vacherin fribourgeois and at least three months in the case of the others (2):
a) Whole cheeses (4) of a free-at-frontier value (5) per 100 kg net weight of:
1. 303.53 ECU or more, but less than 327.71 ECU 2. 327.71 ECU or more
b) Pieces packed in vacuum or in inert gas
1. With rind on at least one side, of a net weight of not less than 1 kg and of a free-at-frontier
II. Other
aa) of not less than 327.71 ECU but less than 351.89 ECU
bb) of not less than 351.89 ECU
Other, of a net weight less than 450 g and of a free-at-frontier value (5) of not less than
D. Processed cheese, not grated or powdered:
I. In the blending of which only Emmentaler, Gruyere and Appenzell have been used and which may contain, as an addition, Glarus herb cheese (known as Schabziger), put up for retail sale, of a free-at-frontier value
(5) of not less than 218 ECU per 100 kg net weight and a fat content, by weight, in the dry matter, not exceeding 56% (2)
E. Other:
I. Not grated or powdered, of a fat content by weight, not exceeding 40% and a water content, calculated by weight of the non-fatty matter:
aa) Intended for processing (9), of a free-at- frontier value (5) of not less than 208.58
Cheddar made from unpasteurized milk, of a minimum fat content of 50% by weight , in
the dry matter, matured for at least nine months (2):
(11) Whole cheeses (4) of a freé-at- frontier value (5) of not less than 238.80 ECU per 100 kg net weight (8)
(22) Other, of a net weight:
(aaa) Of not less than 500 g and of a
free-at-frontier value (5) of not less than 256.94 ECU per 100 kg net weight (8)
(bbb) Of less than 500 g (6) and of a free-at-frontier value (5) of
not less than 269.03 ECU per 100 kg net weight (8)
Whole Cheddar cheeses (4), of a minimum fat content of 50% by weight , in the dry matter , matured for at' least three months and of a free-at-frontier value (5) of at least 232.76 ECU per 100 kg net (2) (8)
Cheddar intended for processing (9), of a free-at-frontier value (5) of not less than
208.58 ECU per 100 kg net weight (2) (8) Other
5. Other:
(applicable with effect from 16 September 1981)
: Cheese and curd:
A. Emmentaler, Gruyere, Sbrinz, Bergkäse, Appenzell, Vacherin fribourgeois and Tete de-moine,. not grated or powdered:
I. Of a minimum fat content of 45% by weight, in the dry matter, matured for at least.two months in the
case of Vacherin fribourgeois and at least three months in the case of the others (2):
a) Whole cheeses (4) of a free-at-frontier value (5) per 100 kg net weight of:
1. 309.69 ECU or more, but less than 333.87 ECU 2. 333.87 ECU or more
b) Pieces packed in vacuum or in inert gas
1. With rind on at least one side, of a net weight of not less than 1 kg and of a free-at-frontier
aa) of not less than 333.87 ECU but less than
bb) of not less thar> 358.05 ECU
2. Other, of a net weight less than 450 g and of a free-at-frontier value (5) of not less than
II. Other
B. (Unchanged) C. (Unchanged) D. (Unchanged) E. Other:
I. Not grated or powdered, of a fat content, by weight, not exceeding 40% and a water content, calculated by weight of the non-fatty matter:
b) Exceeding 47% but not exceeding 72%:
aa) Cheddar made from unpasteurized milk , of a
minimum fat content of 50% by weight, in the dry matter, matured for at least nine months ( 2 ):
(11) Whole cheeses (4) of a free-at- frontier value (5) of not less than 243.49 ECU per 100 kg net weight (8)
(22) Other, of a net weight:
(aaa) Of not less than 500 g and of a
free-at-frontier value (5) of not less than 261.63 ECU per 100 kg net weight (8)
(bbb) Of less than 500 g (6) and of a free-at-frontier value (5) of not less than 273.72 ECU per 100 kg net weight (8)
bb) Whole Cheddar cheeses (4), of a minimum fat content of 50% by weight, in the dry matter, matured for at least three months and of a free-at-frontier value (5) of at least 237.45 ECU per 100 kg net (2) (8)
cc) Cheddar intended for processing ( 9 ), of a free-at-frontier value (5) of not less than 213.27 ECU per 100 kg net weight (2) (8)
dd) Other
( Unchanged )
( Unchanged )
( Unchanged )
Other :
aa ) Intended frontier
value ( 5 ) of not less than 213.27
ECU per 100 kg net weight (2) (8) bb ) ( Unchanged )
Cheese and curd (a):
A. Emmentaler, Gruyere, Sbrinz, Bergkåse, Appenzell, Vacherin fribourgeous and Tete de moine, not grated or powdered:
I. Of a minimum fat content of 45% by , weight, in the dry matter, matured
Rate of duty
(applicable with effect from 1 April 1981)
for at least two months in the case
of Vacherin fribourgeois and at least three months in the case of the
others (b):
a) Whole cheeses of a free-at-frontier value per 100 kg net weight of:
1. 303.53 ECU or more, but less
than 327.71 ECU
2 . 327.71 ECU or more
b) Pieces packed in vacuum or in inert gas '
1. With rind on at least one side, of a net weight of not less than 1 kg and of a free-at- frontier value per 100 kg net weight:
(aa) of not less than 327.71 ECU but less than 351.89 ECU
(bb) of not less than 351.89 ECU
2. Other, of a net weight of less than 450 g and of a free-at- frontier value of not less than
Other
(a) The exchange rate to be applied in converting into national currencies the ECU referred to in the subdivisions of this heading shall , notwithstanding General Rule C3 contained in Part 1, Section 1, be the representative rate, if such rate is fixed for the purposes of the common agricultural policy.
(b) Entry under this subheading is subject to conditions to be determined by the competent authorities.
Rate of duty Autonomous Conven­
( Unchanged ) ( Unchanged )
Processed cheese , powdered :
not grated
I. In the blending of which only Emmentaler , Gruyere and Appenzell have been used and which may contain, as an addition , Glarus herb cheese
(known as Schabziger), put up for retail sale , of a free-at- frontier " value of not less than 218 ECU per 100 kg net weight and of a fat con­ tent , by weight , in the dry matter , not exceeding 56% (b)
The following text is added to Additional Note 4 in Chapter 4 of the CCT: "- Vacherin frigourgeois: not less than 6 kg but not more than 10 kg,
- Tete de moine: not less than 0.700 kg but not more than 4 kg."
Rate of duty
Autonomous Conven- or % tional
Other
(applicable with effect from 16 September 1981)
OA.04 Cheese and curd (a):
A. Emmentaler, Gruyère, Sbrinz, Bergkäse., Appenzell, Vacherin fribourgeous and Tête de moine, not grated or powdered: ,
I. Of a minimum fat content of 45% by
weight, in the dry matter, matured for at least two months in the case
of Vacherin fribourgeois and at least three months in the case of the others (b):
a) Whole cheeses of a free-at-frontier value per 100 kg net weight of:
1. 309.69 ECU or more, but less
than 333.87 ECU
2. 333.87 ECU or more
b) Pieces packed in vacuum or in M inert gas:
1., With rind on at least one side, of a net weight of not less than 1 kg and of a free-at- frontier value per 109 kg net weight : .
(aa) of not less than 333.87 ECU but less than 358.05 ECU
(bb) of not less than 358.05 ECU
2. Other, of a net weight of less than 450 g and,of a free-at- frontier value of not less than
(a) The exchange rate to be applied in converting into national currencies the ECU referred to in.the subdivisions of this heading shall, notwithstanding General Rule C3 .contained in Part 1, Section 1, be the representative rate , if such rate is fixed for the purposes of the common agricultural policy.
(b) Entry under this subheading is subject to conditions to be determined by the competent authorities.
Rate of duty –
Autonomous Conven- or % tional
D. Processed cheese, not grated or powdered :
I. In the blending of which only Emmentaler, Gruyère and ßopenzell have been used and which may contain, as an addition, Glarus herb cheese (known as Schabziger), put up for retail sale, of a free-at-frontier value of not less than 218 ECU per 100 kg net weight and of a fat con­ tent, by weight, in the dry matter, not exceeding 56% (b)
The following text is added to Additional Note A in Chapter A of the CCT: "- Vacherin frigourgeois: not less than 6 kg but not more than 10 kg,
- Tete de moine: not less than 0.700 kg but not more than A kg."
Cheese and curd
,, Appenzell, not grated or powdered:
I. Ofya minimum fat content of 45% by weight, in the dry matter, matured for at least three months (a):
a) Whole cheeses (b) of a free-at-frontier
value per 100 kg net weight of:
ex 1. 141.45 ECU or more, but less than
ex 2. 171.37 ECU or more (excluding Bergkase) (c)
b) Pieces packed in vacuum or in inert . gas:
Rate of conventional
With rind on at least one side, of a net weight:
ex aa) Of not less than 1 kg but
less than 5 kg and of a .free- at-frontier value of not less than 165.63 ECU but less than 205.52 ECU per 100 kg net (excluding Appenzell) (c)(a)
exbb) Notlessthan1kgandofa free-at-frontier value of not
• less than 205.52 ECU per 100 kg net weight (excluding Bergkase) (a)
Other, of a net weight of less than 450 g and of a free-at-frontier value of at least 229.70 ECU
(a) Entry under this subheading is subject to conditions to be determined by the, competent authorities.
(b) The expression "whole cheeses" shall be taken to apply to whole cheeses of the following weights:- Emmentaler: not less than 60 kg but not more than 130 kg; Gruyere and Sbrinz: not less than 20 kg but not more than 45 kg; Bergkase: not less than 20 kg but not more than 60 kg; Appenzell: not less than 6 kg but not more than 8 kg.
(c) The Community reserves the right to apply value limits lower than those specified in the text of the concessions.
With effect from 1 July 1970 the value limits shall be adapted automatically on the basis of changes in the factors determining the formation of prices for Emmentaler in the Community.
Such adjustment shall be based on an increase or reduction of 16.93 ECU in the minimum value for any upward or downward movement of 1.21 ECU per 100 kg of the common target price for milk in the Community.
(d) The Community reserves the right to reduce the customs duties autonomously from 24.18 ECU to 18.13 ECU subject to an increase of 6.04 ECU in the value limits.
amending Regulation (EEC) No 1269/79 on the conditions for the marketing
of reduced price butter for direct consumption during the 1981/82 milk year THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 804/68 of 27 June 1868 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular Article 12(2) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, X'
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas the system established by Council Regulation (EEC) No 1269/79 of 25 June 1979 on the marketing of reduced price butter for direct consumption (5), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1362/80 (6), applies only until the end of the 1980/81 milk year in the conditions laid down in the third subparagraph of Article 6 of the said Regulation;
Whereas there are still substantial quantities available on the butter market ; whereas it is therefore appropriate to continue to take measures which reduce the price of butter for the final private consumer; whereas it is therefore appropriate
to authorize the Member States to apply on a permanent or temporary basis scheme A referred to in Regulation (EEC) No 1269/79 also during the 1981/82 milk year, and to extend the special system hitherto applicable in the United Kingdom,
The third subparagraph of Article 6 of Regulation (EEC) No 1269/79 is hereby
replaced by the following :
"During the 1981/82 milk year:
(a) Member States are authorized to use scheme A referred to in Article 2(1)
either on a permanent basis or for such periods as they may determine;
' (b) However, the United Kingdom shall continue to apply the scheme referred to in Article 2(2).*
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 April 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. -
Done at Brussels, For the Council
- amending Regulation (EEC) No 986/68 laying down general rules
for granting aid for skimmed milk and skimmed-milk powder for use as feed
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 804/68 of 27 June 1968 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2) and in particular
Article 10(2). thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, -
Whereas Article 2a(3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 986/68 of 15 July 1968 laying down general rules for granting aid for skimmed milk and skimmed-milk powder for use as feed (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1273/79 (4), lays down a margin within which the aid for skimmed-milk powder may be fixed; whereas, in view of the criteria set out in the first paragraph of that Article , the limits of this margin . should be
The text of the first subparagraph of Article 2a(3) of Regulation (EEC)
No 986/68 shall be replaced by the following:
"3. Aid for skimmed-milk powder shall be a minimum of 50 and a maximum of 64 ECU per 100 kilograms.
This Regulation shall enter into forceon 1 April 1981 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
amending Regulation (EEC) No 1079/77 with regard to the co-responsibility
levy applicable in the milk and milk products sector during the 1981/82 milk year 1
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2),
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No 1079/77 (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1364/80 (4), introduced a co-responsibility levy applicable until the end of the 1982/83 milk year on milk delivered to dairies and on certain farm sales of milk products;
Whereas this levy, the purpose of which is to bring about a better balance on the milk market by establishing a more direct link between production and outlets, is to be maintained at 2% of the target price for milk for the 1981/82 milk year;
Whereas Article 2(3) of Regulation (EEC) No 1079/77 provides for application of a supplementary levy during the 1981/82 milk year if sales of milk by producers in the calendar year 1980 are 1.5% or more higher than in the calendar year 1979 , in order to cover the cost to the Community of disposing of the extra volume of milk;
 Whereas the increase in the sales in question is 2.6% and the resulting additional cost to the Community is estimated at 213 million ECU; whereas the additional levy applicable during the milk year must permit this amount to be recovered;
Whereas , in order to achieve this objective , it seems appropriate to provide that the additional levy shall, outside the zones already exempted from the co-responsibility levy, be payable by enterprises which purchase from producers a quantity of milk exceeding the average quantities they have purchased during the corresponding months in the two preceding calendar years, at the rate of 8.8 ECU per 100 kg additional quantity of
milk purchased ; whereas , in and producers on a different additional levy to producers increased their deliveries;
Whereas , however , provision
purchasers of additional quantities of milk to obtain a reimbursement of the additional levy paid, at the end of the milk year, to the extent they have channelled this milk towards manufacture of fresh products whose disposal does not involve additional cost for the Community, in the absence of intervention and aid measures or export refunds for the said products;
whereas reimbursement should^also be made where , for a purchaser , the sum of his monthly additional levy payments exceeded the amount due for the total additional amount he purchased during the entire milk year;
Whereas it is important to indicate now what changes are planned in the application of the co-responsibility levy in the 1982/ 83 milk year , in particular under what circumstances it will be possible to discontinue the additional levy,
the absence of agreement between the purchaser system, the purchaser should pass on the
in proportion to the extent whereby they have
should nevertheless be made for the said
 . Article 1 Regulation (EEC) No 1079/77 is amended as follows:
In Article 2 , paragraphs 2 and 3 are amended to read as follows :
"2. For the 1981/82 milk year the levy shall be 2% of the target price
"3 . The levy referred to in paragraph 2 shall , for individual
' be differentiated according to his milk deliveries in proportion to
the fodder area he farms ." '
The following Article 3a is inserted :
1. During the 1981/82 milk year, an additional levy shall be payable by
purchasers of milk delivered by producers to an enterprise which treats or processes milk, on the quantity of milk which, during the month in question, exceeds the average quantity it has purchased during the corresponding month in the two preceding calendar years.
2. The additional levy on this extra milk shall be 8.8 ECU per 100 kg.
It shall not be levied in the mountainous regions referred to in Article 1(2).
3. Purchasers subject to the additional levy shall pass it on in the
price payable to producers for the month in question, on the basis of the quantity of milk which, in that month, exceeds the average
quantity delivered during the corresponsing month in the two preceding calendar years.
However, passing the levy on proportionately in this way:
(a) shall take place subject to the producers in question qualifying
subsequently for any adjustments the purchaser may obtain
pursuant to paragraphs A and 5 hereafter,
(b) shall not apply if the purchaser and the producers who sell him
milk have, in accordance with the rules covering their relationship, agreed on other ways of passing on the levy.
After the end of the 1981/82 milk year, a final account shall be . drawnupforallmilkpurchaserswhohaveonlybeenchargedthe
additional levy for certain months of that year . If it is found that the additional quantity purchased during the milk year in question is lower than the total monthly additional quantities on which the additional levy has been charged, the difference shall be reimbursed to him.
Moreover, after the end of the 1981/82 milk year and on application by the purchaser , the additional levy paid during that milk year shall be refunded for the additional quantities which the purchaser can prove have been employed to increase manufacture of whole drinking milk, yoghurt and/or fresh cheese with a water content, by weight excluding fat, exceeding 62%.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be drawn up in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 6 and shall determine :
(a) the measures necessary to establish the additional quantities - purchased by an undertaking from producers;
(b) measures to prevent arrangements being made between producers and milk purchasers and amongst producers with the object of artificially reducing the additional quantities subject to the additional levy;
detailed rules for exemption from the additional levy pursuant to the second subparagraph of paragraph 2;
detailed rules on passing on a proportion of the levy, as referred to in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3;
detailed conditions for the reimbursement of the additional levy, referred to in paragraph 5.
7. The additional levy referred to in this Article will not be applied in the 1982/83 milk year unless it is found that the quantity of milk
1 sold by Community producers in the form of milk and certain milk products in the calendar year. 1981 has exceeded the quantity sold in the calendar year 1979 by 3% or more.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 April 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels, For the Council
amending Regulation (EEC) No 1080/77 on the supply of milk and certain
milk product# at reduced prices to school children THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 804/68 of 27 June 1968 on the
common organization of the market in milk and milk products (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular the second subparagraph of Article 26 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No 1080/77 of 17 May 1977 on the supply of milk and certain milk products at reduced prices to school children (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1637/79 (4), provides for a Community contribution to the cost of Member States' programmes for the supply of milk and certain milk products at reduced prices to school children;
Whereas, in order to encourage consumption of milk and milk products in schools, it is advisable to bring about a further reduction in prices by increasing the said Community contribution to the target price for milk for the 1981/82 milk year; *
Whereas it is also appropriate to extend the minimum period for which Article 1(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 1080/77 provides an assurance concerning the continuation of the Community contribution towards financing the programmes in question,
Regulation (EEC) No 1080/77 is hereby amended as follows:
1 . In Article 1(1 ), the expression " 1977/ 78 milk year " is replaced expression "1981/82 milk year". ,
by the
2. In Article 1(2), the amount "21.40 ECU" is replaced by the amount "23.60 ECU".
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 April 1981.
This Reglation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels, •' * For the Council
fixing the guide orice and the intervention price for adult »
bovine animals for the 1981/82 marketing year
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof.
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 805/68 of 27 June 1968 on the common organization of the market in beef and veal (1), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (2), and in particular Article 3(3) and the second subparagraph of Article 6(4) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas, when the guide price for adult bovine animals is fixed, account should be taken both of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community desires to make to the harmonious development of world trade; whereas the common agricultural policy aims inter alia to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, to guarantee the availability of supplies and to ensure that supplies reach consumers at reasonable prices;
Whereas the guide price must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid down in Articles 3(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68; whereas, for the 1981/82 marketing year, it should be fixed at a higher level than that adopted for the previous marketing year; whereas, to limit the effects of this increase on the market, it should be effected in two stages;
 Whereas, moreover, the incomes of beef and veal producers may be supported whilst intervention buying is restricted to the meat from male adult bovine animals ;
Whereas, in view of the current economic situation on the beef and veal market, the intervention price for adult bovine animals for the 1981/82 marketing year should be fixed at the same level in relation to the guide price as that adopted for the previous marketing year;
Whereas, under Article 6(3) of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68, the intervention agencies must buy in beef and veal offered to them when the average prices on the Community, market are below the intervention price; whereas, under Article 6(1 ). of the same Regulation, the intervention agencies buy in, having regard to the characteristics of the production of the Member State to which they belong, meat offered to them which has certain quality characteristics; whereas, in the light of the experience of recent years and foreseeable market trends , provision should be made for the 1981 / 82 marketing year for suspending, in respect of each Member State or in
respect of certain regions of Member States, intervention buying-in of each of these qualities when it is found that their price on the representative markets of the Member State or the region in question exceeds their maximum buying-in price over a certain period ;
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No /81 (5) established a Community grading scale for carcases of adult bovine animals; whereas, consequently, this scale should be applied, as soon as it comes into effect, to the calculation of the maximum buying-in price so that the same maximum buying- in price per category is obtained throughout the Community,
For the 1981/82 marketing year, by way of derogation from Article 3(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68, the guide price for adult bovine animals shall be: '/••
170.4OECU per 100 kilograms live weight,, for the period until 6 December 1981 ,
175.22ECU per 100 kilograms live weight, for the period from 7 December 1981 until the end of the marketing year.
For the 1981/82 marketing, year, by way of derogation from Article 5(2) of Regulation ( EEC) No 805 / 68, the meat bought in by intervention agencies shall be fresh or chilled meat from male adult bovine animals, presented in the form of carcases , half-carcases , compensated quarters , forequarters or hindquarters .
For the 1981/82 marketing year, by way of derogation from the second sub­ paragraph of Article 6(1) of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68:
(a) the intervention price referred to in the said subparagraph shall be: 153»36 ECU per 100 kilograms live weight for the period until 6 December
157.70 ECU per 100 kilograms live weight for the period from 7 December
' 1981 ^ v . /" , ,■ until the end of the marketing year;
,(b) the price level referred to in the first sentence of Article 6(3) of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68 shall be:
153*36 ECU per 100 kilograms live weight for the period until 6 December 1981 ,
157*70 ECU per 100 kilograms live weight for the period from 7 December 1981 : V"
until the end of the marketing year.
the 1981 / 82 marketing
by way of derogation
No 805 / 68, buying-in
qualities to be determined of fresh or chilled meat, falling within subheadings 02.01 A II a) 1, 02.01 A II a) 2 and 02.01 A II a) 3 of the Common Customs Tariff, may bfc partially or wholly suspended in a Member State or in a region of a Member State:
- (a) by the Commission, in accordance with the procedure specified in i
, point 4, where the market price for the quality or qualities in , question, recorded in accordance with Article 12(6) of Regulation ( EEC) No 805 / 68 on the representative markets of the Member State
in question remains - during a period of three consecutive
weeks - above 100% and equal to or less than 102% of the maximum buying-in price fixed for that quality or those qualities in accordance with point 3; ,
(b) by the Commission, where the market price referred to in (a) remains - during a period of three consecutive weeks - above 102% of the maximum buying-in price referred to in (a).
If buying-in by the intervention agencies has been suspended pursuant to point 1, the Commission shall decide to resume buying-in where the market pricfe for that quality or those qualities remains equal to or
less than the maximum buying-in price during a period of two consecutive weeks.■ . '
The maximum buying-in price shall be calculated for each of the qualities determined by applying to an amount equal to 90% of the guide price a coefficient expressing the normal relationship, adjusted according to the characteristics of each Member State 's production , between the price for the quality in question and the price of adult bovine animals recorded on the representative markets of the Community
in accordance with Article 12(6) of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68.
<• Article4 year :
from Article 6(1) and (3) of Regulation (EEC) by the intervention agencies of one or more
 However, as from the date on which the Community grading scale for carcases of adult bovine animals provided for in Regulation (EEC)
No comes into effect, the maximum buying-in price to be applied in the event of intervention purchases shall be determined in such a
/ way that the same price is obtained for all carcases belonging to the same category and having the same characteristics.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27 of Regulation
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its application in the Official Journal of the European Communities .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Counci l
amending Regulation (EEC) No 1357/80 introducing a system of premiums
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1), :/ '
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2),
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No 1357/80 (3) provided for the grant of a premium for maintaining suckler cows; whereas it is necessary to fix the amount of this premium for the 1981/82 marketing year; whereas the purpose of this premium is to maintain producers' incomes at a satisfactory level; whereas the amount of the premium should therefore be increased by the same percentage as the guide price for adult bovine animals;
Whereas experience gained during the 1980/81 marketing year has shown the need to establish a Community list of beef breeds to ensure that the premium is uniformly applied throughout the Community; whereas it is also necessary to lay down certain conditions for the application of the premium, particularly as regards the replacement of the cows present on the holding ;
Regulation (EEC) No 1357/80 is hereby amended in accordance with this
Article 2 Article 2(2 ) is replaced by the following :
"2. Grant of the premium shall in addition to subject to an undertaking by the applicant that he will not deliver for the purpose of sale milk or milk products for 12 months from the day on which the application is lodged and that he will keep on his holding for a minimum period of six months from the same date a number of suckler cows, or in-calf heifers for their replacement, which is at least equal to that for which the premium has been granted". '
Article 3 Article 3 is replaced by the following:
For the 1981/82 marketing year , the amount of the premium shall
be 21.60 ECU for each suckler cow kept by the producer on the day on which the application is lodged.
The premium shall be paid in a single instalment. The amount of this premium shall be financed by the Guarantee Section of the Eurppean Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund.
Subject to a limit of21.60 ECU per cow, Member States shall be authorized to grant nationally an additional premium, provided that the granting of such a premium does not give rise to discrimination between stock farmers in one and the same Member State".
 Article 4 Article 5(A) is replaced by the following:
"4. 'Stickler cow' shall mean a cow, or an in-calf heifer for the replacement thereof as referred to in Article 2(2), which belongs to one of the beef breeds listed in the Annex hereto or is the offspring of a cross with one of those breeds and forms part of a herd used for rearing calves for meat production the owner of which sells neither milk nor milk products".
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the
Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. ;
' For the Council
List of beef cattle breeds referred to in point 4
of Article 5
Braunvieh (Brunkvaeg) British White (White Park )
Shorthorn Simmenthal
( Kridkor thorn ) ( Simmentaler ,
Simmenthal ,
on the grant of a calving premium in Italy
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof.
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament ( 1 ),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2),
Whereas the intervention price applicable in the beef and veal sector for the 1981/82 marketing year was fixed at a level below that resulting from the implementation of. Article 6 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 805/68 on the common organization of the market in beef and veal (3), as last amended by the Act of Accession of Greece (4); whereas the Member State which, during the six preceding marketing years, has applied the calving premium system referred to in Council Regulation (EEC) No 1667/80 (5) should therefore continue to grant this premium for a further period of 12 months;
Whereas, however, recent developments in the beef and veal sector indicate a possible improvement of the market in Italy over the coming marketing years ; whereas, therefore , the premium should be gradually redueed over
the next three marketing years and then discontinued at the,end of the *.
1983/84 marketing year; s
 Whereas this premium constitutes intervention on the internal market within the meaning of Article 3 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 729/70 of 21 April 1970 on the financing of the common agricultural policy (6), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 929/79 (7),
The Member State which applies the calving premium system referred to in Regulation (EEC) No 1667/80 shall continue for three years to grant a premium for every calf born on its territory and still alive six
, months after its birth .
The 33 21 10
amount of the said premium by twelve-month period shall be :
ECU for the first year. ECU for the second year, ECU for the third year
payable by the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund . It shall be paid in a single instalment .
\ Detailed rules for the application of this Regulation shall be adopted in
accordance with the procedure Laid down in Article 27 of Regulation (EEC) No 805/68.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities .
It shall apply from the day following that on which the application of the system provided for in Article 1 of Regulation (EEC) No 1667/80 ends.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
fixing the basic price, the intervention prices and the reference
prices for sheepmeat for the 1981/82 marketing year \'
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1837/80 of 27 June 1980 on the common organization of the market in sheepmeat and goatmeat (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 3AA6/80 (2), and in particular Article 3(1) and Article 7(6) thereof, ,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (A),
Whereas, when fixing the basic price for sheep carcases, account should be taken both of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution the Community intends to make to the harmonious development of worLd trade; whereas the main objectives of the common agricultural policy are to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community , to assure the availability of supplies and to ensure that supplies reach consumers at reasonable prices; •
Whereas the basic price must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 3(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1837/80; whereas it should be fixed for the 1981/82 marketing year at a level exceeding that fixed for the previous marketing year; whereas the intervention prices correspond to a percentage of the basic price;
Whereas the reference prices must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 3(A)(b) of Regulation (EEC) No 1837/80, which provides for convergence of these prices in order to achieve a single Community reference price after a certain period*
region 4 is hereby fixed at
4. the reference prices are hereby fixed at:
For the 1981/82 marketing year, in the sheepmeat sector: 1.thebasicpriceisherebyfixedat 365.70 ECUper100kg; 2. the intervention price shall be 310.05 ECU per 100 kg; 3. the derived intervention price applicable in
The prices referred to in Article 1(1), (2) and (3) shall be seasonally adjusted in accordance with the table given in the Annex to this Regulation.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council
6 July 13
4 January 82 11
 Draft proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No /81
amending Regulation (EEC) No 1837/80 on the common organization of the
market in sheepmeat and goatmeat
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1),
• Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2),
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No 1837/80 (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 3446/80 (4), set up a common market organization for sheepmeat and goatmeat; whereas the said organization includes a system of premiums for sheepmeat producers, slaughter premiums and intervention;
Whereas experience during the first months the said system was applied has
shown the need to adapt some of the rules for those systems; ι
Whereas, in particular, for region 3 which is made up of several Member States , it appears necessary to alter the method for calculating the premium for producers so that the amount of the premium may be adapted to the market situation in each Member State concerned; whereas, moreover, the fact that the said premium reaches a ceiling in the said region must only affect Member States which apply measures for intervention buying-in or the slaughter premium for sheep;
 Whereas the Community has undertaken, within voluntary restraint agreements, to limit levies on import of live animals, . .
Regulation (EEC) No 1837/80 is hereby amended as set out in this Regulation. \*•
Article 5(2), (3) and (4) is replaced by the following:
"2. Taking into account the foreseeable market price trends in each region concerned, a loss of income shall be estimated each year at the beginning of the marketing year in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26, This loss of* income shall represent any difference. there may be between the reference price for a region and the foreseeable market >price for that region for the current marketing year to be established in accordance with Article 4.
This difference shall be multiplied by the tonnage of meat produced in each region concerned during the year preceding the current year; however , for region 3 , that difference shall be multiplied by the tonnage of meat produced in each Member State concerned, during the same period. The total amount thus obtained shall be revised at the end of the marketing year, in accorddance with the procedure laid down in Article 26, in order to take account of the actual market price trends and to ensure that the level of the premium corresponds to the actual -loss of income . •
 3. However , where the intervention measures
are applied, account shall be taken when
referred to in paragraph 2 of the effect
premium, for the regions and during the period to which these measures apply, at a maximum equal to the difference between the reference price and the seasonally-adjusted intervention price . For region 3 , the ceiling shall be determined by the Member State concerned.
Likewise , where the premium provided for in Article 9 is applied , account shall be taken, for the calculation of the total amount referred to in paragraph 2, of the effect of restricting the premium referred to in paragraph 1, for regions where the premium referred to in Article 9 is granted; for region 3 the ceiling shall be determined by the Member State concerned . This ceiling shall be obtained by deducting , from the total amount referred to in paragraph 2, the overall amount of the premium granted under Article 9.
4. The total amount referred to in paragraph 2 shall be divided, for each Member State concerned, by the number of ewes, recorded in that Member - State. The result obtained shall give the estimated amount of the premium payable per ewe and per Member State.
However , at the request of those concerned , the amount of the . premium payable per ewe in region 1 may be equal to that determined in region 2 where beneficiaries have shown, to the satisfaction of the competent authority, that the lambs born of these ewes will not be slaughtered before two months of age."
Article 3 Article 15 is replaced by the following:
Notwithstanding Articles 12," 13 and 14
a) for products falling within subheading 01.04 B of the Common Customs
Tariff the levies shall be limited to the amount resulting from
voluntary restraint agreements;
b) for products falling within subheadings 02.01 A IV of the Common Customs
Tariff in respect of which the rate of duty has been bound under GATT, the levies shall be limited to the amount resulting from such binding or to that resulting from voluntary restraint agreements."
provided for in Article 6(1)(b) calculating the total amount
of setting a ceiling on the
 Article 4 This Regulation shall enter into force on
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council
fixing the basic price and the standard quality for slaughtered pigs
for the period 1 November 1981 to 31 October 1982
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, , and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2759/75 of 29 October 1975 on
the common organization of the market in pigmeat (1), as last amended by \
the Act of Accession of Greece (2)
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission. /:
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas, when the basic price for slaughtered pigs is fixed, account should be taken of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community desires to make to the harmonious develop­ ment of world trade; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are in particular to ensure a fair standard of living for the
' agricultural community, they reach consumers at
to ensure that supplies are available and that reasonable prices;
must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid Regulation (EEC) No 2759/75 for a standard quality
Whereas the basic price
down in Article 4(1) of
defined according to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2760/75 of 29 October 1975 determining the Community scale for grading pig carcases (5);
 Whereas the most representative class and categories of weight in Community production should be taken as the standard quality;
Whereas the application of those criteria results in the basic price being fixed at a level higher than that adopted for the previous period;
For the period 1 November 1981 to 31 October 1982 the basic price for
slaughtered pigs of the standard quality shall be 1730.06ECU per 1000 ki lograms .
The standard quality shall be the quality for pig carcases of Class II of the Community scale for grading pig carcases laid down by Regulation (EEC) No 2760/75, excluding those carcases with a weight of less than 70 kilograms and those with a weight equal to or greater than 160 kilograms.
Article 3 / This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 November 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council
REGULATION (EEC) No OF THE COUNCIL establishing a system of aid for bee-keeping in the years 1981/82
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 42 and 43 thereof;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission; Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament;
Whereas, because of the action of pollination bee-keeping is essential for maintaining the yields of a wide range of agricultural crops ;
Whereas bee-keeping should be promoted both to increase honey production and to safeguard environmental eguilibrium;
Whereas Community^bee-keeping is generally conducted on a small scale, but is of some importance to the economies of certain regions in the Community and is a source of additional income for . farmers in those regions;
Whereas the structural features and the natural conditions of production limit the productivity of bee-keeping , and whereas the recent increase in the cost of winter feed and the weather conditions of the last marketing years have aggravated the situation;
Whereas premiums for denaturing white sugar for feeding bees are not to be continued in 1981;
Whereas, under those circumstances, aid should be granted to this sector over a period long enough to enable the initiation of long-term improvement
 Whereas expenditure incurred by Member States as a result of obligations under this Regulation should be financed by the Community, pursuant to Article 3 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 729/70 of 21 April 1970 on the financing of the common agricultural policy (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No
1. For three successive marketing years (1 July to 30 June), beginning with the marketing year 1981/82, Member States shall grant aid in respect of bees kept within their territories.
2. The aid shall take the form of a specific contribution to associations of bee-keepers which are recognized by the Member State within whose territory the organization has its registered office, according to the number of hives in production.
3. Such aid shall be granted on the reguest of those associations and the amount is hereby fixed at 1 ECU per hive in production and per marketing year .
.1. For the purpose of this Regulation, Association of bee-keepers means any organization of holders of hives , formed on the initiative of producers themselves for purposes including
a) promotion of the indigenous production of honey
b) improvement of their techniques
c) protection of the economic interests of their members.
2. Only those associations which enter into an undertaking not to exclude non-member bee-keepers from the benefits of the grant received shall be eligible for grants.
The number of hives in production taken for calculating the amount of aid shall be that which the holders declare to the association as being maintained on a regular basis throughout the marketing year for which the aid is- granted. A holder may submit only one declaration, producing any supporting documents requested by the competent authority of the Member State and kept with the register at the association.
Applications for aid shall be submitted not later than 31 May preceding
the marketing year for which the aid is granted.
The Member State pays the amount of aid to the association in the three months following that in which the application has been submitted.
The associations shall use not more than 50% of the aid granted for the purchase of feeding sugar to be distributed at reduced prices to the registered holders within the limit of 5kg per hive.
The remaining funds shall be allocated to appropriate schemes in the general interest connected with honey production, technology and marketing which are approved in advance by the Member States . In particular, this may concern:
- teaching and training projects
- disease control, prevention and research - cooperative marketing and quality control - breeding stations and elite breeders
- migration of bees between regions.
However, the associations may, on majority approval of their membership
and with the prior authorization of their Member State use the total amount of aid granted for the financing of general schemes referred to in the preceding paragraph.
 - Article 5 Associations of bee-keepers shall be obliged:
- to keep separate accounts for the activities for which the grant has been t
- to submit , not later than 3 months after the end of the marketing year
for which the aid has been received , a report on the actions , undertaken to the competent authority of the Member State.
1. The Member States shall submit, not later than.6 months after the end
of each of the three marketing years , a report on the application of this Regulation . , -
2. The Commission shall submit to the Council before 1 July 1983 a report on the implementation of this Regulation, with a view to making
suggestions for the most appropriate common measure to be applied in future .
1. If necessary, detailed rules of application of this Regulation shall be
adopted according to the procedure laid down in Article 17 of Counci] Regulation (EEC) No 2771/75 on the common organization of the market in eggs .
2. Member States and the Commission shall hold regular exchanges of views on the application of this Regulation, in particular under the procedure provided for in Article 18 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2771/75 on the common organization of the market in eggs.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at For the Council
amending Regulation (EEC) No 878/77 on the exchange rates to be
applied in agriculture
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation No 129 on the value of the unit of account and the exchange rates to be applied for the purposes of the common agricultural policy (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC)
No 2543/73 (2), and in particular Article 3 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the representative rates applicable at present were fixed by Regulation (EEC) No 878/77 (3), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No3447/80(4); whereasitisnowadvisabletofixnewandmore economically realistic exchange rates for the Belgian franc, the Luxembourg franc, the German mark, the Irish pound, the Dutch guilder and the pound
sterling; should be
whereas in the interests of clarity all the representative rates republished;
 Whereas when these rates are adjusted account must be taken of the effects of the operation, particularly on prices, and of the situation existing in the Member States concerned ; whereas , therefore , provision must be made for the new rates to take effect after a reasonable lapse of time, to coincide as a rule with the beginning of the new marketing year or the date of an adjustment in prices ; whereas , however , they should take effect immediately in certain cases;
Whereas, in order to prevent interdependent products being treated differently, provision must be made for the new rates to apply to the cereals , eggs and poultrymeat and ovalbumin and lactalbumin sectors from the same date; '
Whereas (opinion of Monetary Committee), HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION :
Annexes I to VIII of Regulation (EEC) No 878/77 are hereby replaced by
Annexes I to IX of this Regulation.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 April 1981.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council
1 ECU = 39.7897 Belgian francs/Luxembourg francs This rate shall apply from:
- 1 July 1981 for the sugar and isoglucose sector,
- 1 August 1981 for the cereals, eggs and poultrymeat and ovalbumin and
- 1 November 1981 for the pigmeat sector,
- 16 December 1981 for the wine sector; other dates may however be fixed
for distillation operations and for the aid provided for in Articles 14
and 14a of Regulation (EEC) No 337/79,
- 1 January 1982 for the fishery products sector,
- 1 July 1982 for the seeds sector,
- the beginning of the 1981/82 marketing year for other products for which
there exists a marketing year that has not started by 1 April 1981 , - 1 April 1981 in all other cases.
Until the dates given above the following rate shall apply: 1 ECU = 40.5191 Belgian francs/luxembourg francs.
Until the beginning of the 1981/82 milk year the following rate shall apply: 1 ECU = 40.7264 Belgian francs/Luxembourg francs.
1. 1 ECU = 2.60723 German marks This rate shall apply from:
1 July 1981 for the sugar and isoglucose sector,
1 August 1981 for the cereals, eggs and poultrymeat and ovalbumin and lactalbumin sectors,
1 November 1981 for the pigmeat sector ,
16 December 1981 for the wine sector; other dates may however be fixed for distillation operations and for the aid provided for in Articles 14 and 14a of Regulation (EEC) No 337/79,
1 January 1982 for the fishery products sector,
1 July 1982 for the seeds sector, v
the beginning of the 1981/82 marketing year for other products for,
which there exists a marketing year that has not started by 1 April - 1981 ,
1 April 1981 in all other cases.
Until the dates given above the following rate shall apply:
1 ECU = 2.75175 German marks, except for the seeds sector, where: 1 ECU = 2.78341 German marks. -
2. Notwithstanding the previous paragraph the following rates shall apply: (a) in the milk and milk products sector:
1 ECU = 2.63490 German marks from the beginning of the 1981/82 milk year and
1 ECU = 2.60723 German marks from 16 September 1981 onwards.
Until the beginning of the 1981/82 milk year the following rate
shall apply:
(b) In the beef and veal sector: 1 ECU = 2.63490 German marks
marketing year and
from the beginning of the 1981/82
from 1 December 1981 onwards.
Until the beginning of the 1981/82 marketing year the following rate
This rate shall apply from:
- 1 July 1981 for the sugar and isoglucose sector,
- 1 August 1981 for the cereals, eggs and poultrymeat and ovalbumin and
- 1 November 1981 for the pigmeat sector
- 16 December 1981 for the wine sector ; other dates may however be fixed
for distillation operations and for the aid provided for in Articles 14 % and 14a of Regulation (EEC) No 337/79,
- 1 January 1982 for the fishery products sector,
- 1 July 1982 for the seeds sector,
- the beginning of the 1981/82 marketing year for other products for which
there exists a marketing year that has not started by 1 April 1981, - 1 April 1981 in all other cases.
Until the dates given above, the following rate shall apply: 1 ECU = 2.79391 Dutch guilders.
Until the beginning of the 1981/82 milk year the following rate shall apply: 1 ECU = 2.80821 Dutch guilders.
1. 1 ECU = 0.582603 pounds sterling. This rate shall apply from:
1 July 1981 for the sugar and isoglucose sector ,
1 August 1981 for the cereals, eggs and poultrymeat and ovalbumin and
1 November 1981 for the pigmeat sector,
16 December 1981 for the wine sector; other dates may however be , «
fixed for distillation operations and for the aid provided for in Articles 14 and 14a of Regulation (EEC) No 337/79,
1 January 1982 for the fishery products sector,
the beginning of the 1981/82 marketing year for other products for which there exists a marketing year that has not started by 1 April 1981 ,
- 1 April 1981 in all other cases.
Until the dates given above, the following rate shall apply: 1 ECU = 0.618655 pounds sterling.
2. Notwithstanding the previous paragraph the following rates shall apply: (a) in the milk and milk products sector:
1 ECU = 0.589476 pounds sterling from the beginning of the 1981/82 milk year and
1 ECU = 0.582603 pounds sterling from 16 September 1981 onwards. Until the beginning of the 1981/82 milk year the following rate shall apply:
In the beef and veal sector:
1 ECU = 0.589476 pounds sterling from the beginning of the 1981/82
marketing year and
1 ECU = 0.582603 pounds sterling from 1 December 1981 onwards.
Until the beginning of the 1981/82 marketing year the following rate will apply:
Badischer Geudertheimer Badi s cher Burley E
Maryland 2,722
fixing for the 1981 harvest the norm and intervention prices and the
premiums granted to purchasers of leaf tobacco, the derived intervention , - prices for baled tobacco and the reference qualities
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article.43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 727/70 of 21 April 1970 on the common organization of the market in raw tobacco (1), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No /81 (2), and in particular Articles 2(5), 4(4) and 6(8) thereof,
to the proposal from the Commission,
to the opinion of the European Parliament(3),
to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee(4), to the Opinion of the Monetary Committee,
Having regard Having regard Having regard Having regard
Whereas, when
both of the objectives of the common agricultural policy and of the contribution which the Community desires to make to the harmonious develop­ ment of world trade; whereas the objectives of the common agricultural policy are, in particular, to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural community, to assure the availability of supplies and to ensure that supplies reach consumers at reasonable prices;
fixing the prices for raw tobacco, account should be taken
 Whereas the norm and intervention prices for Leaf tobacco must be fixed in accordance with the criteria laid down in Article 2(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70 in order in particular to encourage producers to convert to the cultivation of those varieties which are most competitive and most in demand ;
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No of laying down special measures for certain varieties of raw tobacco (5) provided for a reduction in the intervention price for the said varieties;
Whereas it is again desirable to fix, in respect of the 1981 harvest, derived intervention prices both for the varieties which, before the common organi­ zation of the market came into force, or, in the case of varieties grown in Greece prior to accession, qualified for a price guarantee at the baled tobacco stage, and for the varieties which are mainly grown in the Federal Republic of Germany, in order to take account of marketing practices in
that country; whereas, to this end, both increased costs and increased productivity should be taken into consideration ;
Whereas the premium granted to purchasers of Community tobacco is intended to enable them to pay producers of leaf, tobacco a price which is at the
level of the norm price, account being taken of the trend in world market prices and the level of prices established by the interaction of supply and demand on the Community market ;
Whereas the abovementioned prices and the amount of the premium must be fixed for each variety in relation to a reference quality defined in such a way that as objective an assessment as possible can be made of the quality of the tobacco ;
Whereas, in order better to reflect the market situation, a more precise definition should be given of the reference qualities of all varieties of tobacco, both in leaf and baled, in respect in particular of the botanical and commercial characteristics ;
Whereas a new assessment of the characteristics of the Forcheimer
Havanna II C variety has led to its inclusion in the group of varieties listed under the serial number 11 because of its close similarity with the Nostrano del Brenta variety ;
 Whereas, since the signing of the Act of Accession, Greece has amended its classification of the varieties grown in that country, in particular by putting certain similar varieties together, in order to make that classifi­ cation more consistent with Community rules; and whereas, therefore, this new classification should be used instead of the classification given in Annex II to the Act of Accession;
Whereas under the provisions of Article 87(1) and of Article 58 of the Act of Accession of Greece, the intervention prices to be applied in Greece for tobacco from the 1981 harvest shall be fixed at a level enabling tobacco producers to obtain market prices equivalent to those obtained, during a representative period to be determined, under the previous national system; whereas it appears advisable to take the 1978, 1979 and 1980 harvests as that reference period ;
Whereas Article 87(2) of the Act of Accession of Greece provides that the norm prices corresponding to the intervention prices referred to above shall be fixed in Greece for the 1981 harvest at a level reflecting the relation existing between the norm price and the intervention price, in accordance with the second subparagraph of Article 2(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70;
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No / (6) provides that for the tobac
, a new representative rate shall be applied to the Member States ; whereas that provision should lead ,
a reduction , in terms of national currencies , of the
sector, from
currencies of
as from that
premium fixed in units of account for a substantial part of the harvest in those Member States whose representative rate is revalued; whereas, however it seems more appropriate to the nature of this sector that the same conditions should apply to the entire harvest in a given year; whereas this objective could be achieved if the previous rates of exchange for the Member States concerned were to be made applicable to premiums paid for the 1980 harvest,
For the 1981 harvest the reference qualities for each of the varieties of
leaf tobacco of Community production, referred to in Article 2(3)(c) of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70, shall be as set out in Annex I.
For the 1981 harvest the reference qualities referred to in Article 6(3)(c)
of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70, for each of the varieties of baled tobacco of Community- production in respect of which a derived intervention price is fixed , shall be as set out in Annex II .
For the 1981 harvest the norm and intervention prices and the amounts of
the premium granted to purchasers of leaf tobacco referred to in Articles 2 and 3 of Regulation (EEC) No 727/70, and the derived intervention prices for baled tobacco referred to in Article 6 of the said Regulation, shall be as set out in Annex III .
The exchange rate to be applied in the Federal Republic of Germny and the Benelux countries for the purposes of the premiums for the 1980 harvest shall, until 31 March 1982, be the representative rate applicable to the
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. x
For the Council The President
Leaf tobacco: varieties and their reference qualities for the 1981 harvest
" leaf ripe , sound ," undamaged , bodied , lively , reddish to medium brown colour , of uniform development and moderate combustibility .
tobacco graded , tied in hands or in temporary bales with non-tobacco material
leaves ripe , sound , supple , of uniform development and open texture , yellow to orange and of average combustibility.
tobacco graded , tied in hands or in temporary bales with non-tobacco material
Class 1 leaf
Typical character : thin to
texture , leaf shape ovate to broad fairly thick brown midrib
Class 1 leaf
Typical character : Thin to bodied , elastic with open texture , leaf shape elongated ovate , rather strong brown midrib
leaf ripe , undamaged , brown to dark brown-greenish , mottled , of uniform development and good combustibility.
tobacco graded , tied in hands or in temporary bales with non-tobacco material
a) Paraguay and hybrids thereof b) Dragon vert and
hybrids thereof, Philippin , Petit Grammont
Reference quality Class 2 middle leaf
hybrids thereof Rio Grande and
2nd quality leaf
thereof
2nd quality : leaf fully developed , over not coarse grained , lively to
leaves ripe, reasonably undamaged, brown to mottled or slightly bronzed ; minor defects in ripeness and colour and minor damage are allowed .
by position on plant ( lugs , middle leaves , top leaves ) in bales ( 20-40 kg), or in pallet cases (120-150
kg ); leaves loose or in hands .
leaf up to 50 cm in length , texture , bodied , undamaged ,
fairly lively light somewhat yellowish colour , reasonably firm and undamaged ; reasonably good combustibility .
By quality , all positions in plant together , in bales at 20-30 kg , leaves loose
Either :
undamaged , strong , with some colour defects .
and elastic , brown to dark
well ripened , brown .
By position in plant leaves ) in bales of 40-50 in hands or loose
and top
leaf ripe , well cured , bodied ,
Moisture : 16% Category A leaf
Category A leaf
Category A leaf
texture not too yellow middle
prominent , sound ,
to orange yellow ,
leaf , combustibility good .
leaf ripe , well cured , texture thin , open and supple , possibly
leaf fully ripe , well cured , texture thin and open , midribs and veins not prominent , sound , colour a lively reddish brown , from the middle positions , combustibility perfect
loose or in hands , in bales of 30-40 kg
veins not too rather lively
prominent , not brown positions ,
and sound ,
open , midribs and
by position in plant , leaves straight laid (loose leaf) in bales of 30-40 kg
colour , from the middle combustibility excellent
loose or in hands, made up in bales of 30-40 kg
Kentucky and hybrids thereof Moro di Cori Salento
leaf properly ripe , bodied , well cured and sound , brown , some damage , mainly from upper middle and upper positions, combustibility very good
straight laid ( loose leaf ) or in hands, made up in bales at 30-40 kg
Category B. leaf
Category B: leaf reasonably sound and ripe , substantial to light , some curing
Category B leaf
Category B: leaf reasonably ripe , possibly coarse or thin texture , with
curing and storage defects and some damage , but having the
minimum qualities required for intervention
in hands in bundles of 30-40 kg
defects and damage, dark not brown in colour with a greenish tinge ,
in good condition , as a general rule from ripe base and top
leaves , combustibility good
by position on plant , in hands made up in bundles of 30-40 kg
Category B leaf
Category B: Leaf reasonably sound and not too developed, some curing defects allowable, light to moderately
Category B leaf
Category B: Leaf reasonably sound and ripe, not too developed, some curing
Erzegovina and similar varieties
Category B leaf
Category B: Leaf reasonably sound and ripe, not too developed, some curing
bodied, yellow to brown in colour, some damage but well preserved, lower leaves allowable, combustibility good
leaves stringed in cases with internal supports ("cassa a crociera") of 30-40 kg or made up in bales of 15-20 kg
defects allowable, texture mostly light, yellow to brown, possibly reddish clour, some damage but well preserved, base leaves allowable, combustibility good
leaves stringed in cases With internal supports ("cassa a crociera") of 30-40 kg or made up in bales of 15-20 kg
defects allowable, texture mostly light, yellow to brown in colour, some damage but well preserved, base leaves allowable, combustibility good
leaves stringed in cases with internal supports ("cassa a crociera") of 30-40 kg or made up in bales of 15-20 kg
Lower middle leaf, sorted by length in the following proportions:
Leaf of convenient size , properly
ripe and of uniform colour , sound ,
undamaged , fine , strong and elastic
texture, midribs and veins submerged,
properly fermented and well
preserved , combustibility good , of
typical flavour and aroma , suitable
for wrapping cigars , including about 25% broken leaf.
by position on the plant , in hands 22%
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured , from all positions on the
plant except the first ("protomana") , up to 15 cm long , colour golden-yellow , orange to yellow-red , with good elasticity , shiny , fairly bodied , porous structure and fine texture , good combustibility .
Leaf as described above constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe showing slight damage and/or curing defects , with slight disease blemishes , from all positions on the plant, up to 20 cm long, colour light yellow , yellow-green , reddish or light brown , with fairly porous structure and fine texture, medium elasticity , moderately shiny and bodied , very good combustibility .
Category B leaf Category B:
18 Katerini and similar
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged,, sound, well cured , from all positions on the
plant except the first ("protomana") , up to 20 cm long, colour light yellow or orange to reddish , of porous structure , good elasticity , shiny , fairly bodied , fine texture and very good combustibility.
Leaf as above constitutes 45% of quality I/III .
Leaf ripe with slight damage and/or curing defects, with slight disease
Leaf as described above constitutes 55% of quality I/III.
Growers' bales of 15 to 25 kg , formed in the traditional way from two rows
of pastais (leaves straight laid). In the districts of Astakos and
Chrysoupolis packing is in "armathodema") .
all positions on the cm long , colour yellow-green , reddish of porous structure ,
blemishes , from
plant , up to 25
yellow , orange ,
or light brown ,
moderately bodied , fine texture and very good combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes 55% of quality I/III.
Strings are usually bulked using the "Baski" system before packing. Packing is in bales of 25-35 kg using traditional "Kaloup" system.
Quality I/III leaves
cured , from all positions on the plant except top leaves, up to 25 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and to 20 cm long for Karatzo'va and
Kontoula , Of moderate to deep yellow colour , good elasticity , shiny , of porous structure , fine texture and excellent combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes 47% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe , with some slight damage and/or curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to .30 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and 25 cm long for Karatzova and Kontoula,
colour yellow , yellow-green , reddish , of fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture , medium elasticity and moderately shiny , excellent combustibility .
Leaf as described above constitutes 53% of quality I/III.
Growers' bales of 15-30 kg , made up in the traditional form of two rows of "armathodema".
undamaged , sound , well
20 a) Kaba Koulak Quality I/III leaves non-classic
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
plant except the top leaves, up to 30 cm long for Macedonia Kaba Koulak and Trapezous, 20 cm long for ElassonaandPhi1 and15cmlong for Myrodata Smyrnis, of light yellow to reddish colour, good elasticity, shiny, fairly porous structure, fine texture and excellent combustibility. Leaf as described above constitutes 47% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects, from all positions on the plant, up to 35 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and Trapezous, 25 cm long for Elassona and Phi 1 and 20 cm long for Myrodata Smyrnis, of yellow, yellow-green or
•light brown colour, of fairly porous structure, fairly fine texture, fairly elastic and shiny, very good combustibility.
Growers' bales of 25-35 kg, made up using the traditional "armathodema" system or of 35-50 kg using the "Kaloup" system
Leaf ripe , undamaged , sound , without curing defects , from all positions on the plant except top leaves, up to
20 cm long, light yellow to light orange colour , good elasticity ,
shiny , porous structure , fine texture ; excellent combustibility . Leaf as described above constitutes
47% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 25 cm long , colour yellow , yellow-green or light reddish , fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture, fairly elastic and shiny ; excellent combustibility .
Quality I/III leaves
ripe , undamaged , sound ,
without
Leaf as described above constitutes 53% of quality I/III.
Growers' bales' of 15-30 kg made up in the traditional way in two rows of "armathodema".
Moisture : Zichnomyrodata Quality I/III leaves
curing defects , from all positions on' the plant except the first ("protomana") , up to 25 cm long, of yellow to deep orange colour, of good elasticity, shiny, porous structure, fine texture and excellent combustibi­ lity .
Leaf as described above constitutes 47% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, slight curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 30 cm long , of yellow , yellow-green or
light reddish colour , fairly porous structure and fairly -fine texture , fairly elastic and shiny , excellent combustibility .
Growers* bales of 15-30 kg made up in the traditional way in two rows of "armathodema" ·
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, without curing defects, from all positions on
the plant except the first ("protomana"), up to 35 cm long,
colour yellow-red, orange to reddish, of porous structure, elastic and shiny, fairly bodied, fine texture and very good combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with minor curing defects, from all positions on the plant, up to AO cm long, colour light yellow, yellow-green, reddish or light brown, fairly porous structure, fairly elastic and shiny, fairly bodied, fairly fine texture, very good combustibility; includes leaves with slight disease blemishes and/or minor damage .
Leaf as described above constitutes 55% of quality I/III.
Growers' bales of 30-40 kg, made up in two rows of "armathodema"
Quality A leaves
Quality I/III leaves
Quality A:
Leaf fully ripe ,
undamaged , sound ,
defects , from the
position , o'f uniform medium nut-brown to nut- red colour , porous structure , fine texture , excellent combustibility .
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, without curing defects , from all positions on
the plant except the first ("protomana"), up to 30 cm long, colour yellow-reddish or orange to
with porous structure , fine
elastic and shiny , fairly bodied , good combustibility .
Leaf as described above constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, showing minor curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 40 cm long , colour yellowish , yellow-green (lemon), reddish or light brown, fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture , fairly elastic and
shiny , fairly bodied , of good combustibility ; includes also leaves with slight disease- blemishes and/or minor damage.
Growers' bales of 30-50 kg made up in two rows of "armathodema"
fully developed , without curing middle stalk
Quality A Quality A:
Growers' bales of 40 kg, made up in two, rows of "armathodema", no strings (leaves loose)
Leaf fully ripe , fully developed ,
sound , undamaged , without curing defects , of uniform lemon yellow to medium orange colour , well bodied , fine texture and good combustibility , mainly from the middle stalk position.
Growers' bales of 30-40 kg, made up in two rows of "armathodema", no strings (leaves loose)
Baled tobacco: varieties and their reference qualities for the 1981 harvest
leaf ripe, undamaged, bodied, lively uniform reddish brown to mid .brown
colour, of uniform development, combustibility fairly good.
in bales or cases of 75 to 175 kg or barrels of 225 to 450 kg
leaf ripe, sound, supple, undamaged, of porous texture, lively yellow to orange in colour, of uniform development, combustibility moderate
in bales or cases of 75 to 175 kg or barrels of 225 to 450 kg
Class 1 leaf/
Typical character: thin to bodied, open texture, leaf shape ovate to elongated ovate, rather thick brown midrib, fermented normally
Typical character: thin to bodied, elastic open texture, leaf shape elongated ovate, rather thick brown midrib, well fermented
leaf ripe, sound, undamaged, brown to dark brown, of uniform development, combustibility very good
in bales, cases or cartons of 75 to 200 kg or in barrels of approximately 225 to 450 kg
Category A leaf
Category A:, leaf ripe , without curing defects , fine and open texture , soft ,
Packaging:- in bulk in barrels of 300 to 420 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg
Category A leaf
Category A: leaf fully ripe , well cured , texture thin and open, midribs and veins not
Category A leaf
sound , yellow or orange yellow , mainly from the middle leaves, combustibility good
in bulk in barrels of 300 to 400 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg
in bulk in barrels of 300 to 420 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg
Category A: leaf ripe , well cured , open texture , midrib and veins not too prominent,
possibly not too from the storage ,
bodied , midrib and veins prominent , sound , nut brown , middle leaves , suitable for
combustibility excellent
prominent , sound , colour a lively
brown , from middle leaves ,
good , distinct pleasant combustibility perfect
Kentucky and hybrids thereof Moro di Cori Salento
Category B leaf
vaggio and similar varieties
Category B: leaf bodied or light, sound, without curing defects, brown or possibly
generally from middle and upper positions, part suitable for the wrapper of and all suitable for the fillers of dark cigars
straight laid (leaves loose) or in bulk in barrels of 300 to 420 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg
fairly aromatic,.combustibility good, sufficiently fermented
straight laid (leaves loose) or in bulk in jute bales of 170 to 180 kg
Category B: leaf properly ripe, bodied, well cured and sound, brown, some damage,
Category B leaf
Category B: leaf reasonably ripe, possibly coarse or thin, some curing and fer­
mentation defects and some damage.
in bulk in jute bales of 160 to 180 kg, barrels of 300 to 420 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg
Category B leaf
Category B: leaf reasonably sound and ripe , not
Erzegovina and similar varieties
Category B leaf
Category B: leaf reasonably sound and ripe , not
Category B leaf
small baies of 18 to 20 kg 17%
Category B: leaf reasonably sound and ripe , not too developed , some curing defects allowable , light to medium-bodied ,
yellow to brown ,
well preserved , leaf
positions allowable , combustibility good , sufficiently fermented
small baies of 18 to 20 kg
too developed , some curing allowable , texture mostly
yellow to brown , possibly
colour , some damage but well preserved , base leaves allowable ,
• flavour passable-, aroma adequate , combustibility good , sufficiently fermented
small baies of 18 to 20 kg 13%
too developed , some curing allowable , texture mostly
some
to brown in colour , but well preserved , allowable , flavour
sufficiently fermented
some damage but from lower
adequate , combustibility good ,
defects light , reddish
Category B leaf
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, all positions on the plant
except the first ("protomana"), up to 15 cm long, colour golden-yellow, orange to yellow-red, with good elasticity and shiny, fairly bodied, porous structure and fine texture, good combustibility
Leaf as described above (I/II) constitutes 40% of quality I/III
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects and slight disease blemishes, up to
20 cm long, colour light yellow, reddish or light brown, with fairly porous structure and fine texture, medium elasticity, moderately shiny and bodied, very good combustibility Leaf as described above (III) constitutes 55% of quality I/III
Lower middle leaf, sorted by length' in the following proportions:
Leaf of convenient size, properly ripe and of uniform colour, sound, undamaged, fine, strong and elastic texture, midribs and veins submerged, properly fermented and well preserved, combustibility good, of typical flavour and aroma, suitable for wrapping cigars, including about 25% of broken leaf
in bales of 70 to 90 kg or cartons of 180 to 200 kg
Katenni and similar varieties
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III leaves
cured , from all positions on the plant except the first ("protomana"), up to 20 cm long, colour light yellow or orange to reddish , of porous structure , good elasticity ., shiny , fairly bodied , fine texture and very good combustibility .
Leaf as described above ( I / II ) constitutes 45% of quality I/III
" Leaf ripe with slight damage and curing defects, with slight disease
cured , from all positions on the plant except top leaves, up to
25 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and to 20 cm long for Karatzova and Kontoula , of moderate to deep yellow colour , good elasticity , shiny , of porous structure , fine texture and
Leaf as described above constitutes
47% of quality I/II.
undamaged , sound , well
all positions on
blemishes , from
the plant , up to
yellow , orange ,
reddish or light
structure , fairly bodied , fine texture and very good combustibility
Leaf as described above constitutes 55% of quality I/III
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately
yellow-green ,
brown , of
undamaged , sound , well
Leaf ripe with some slight damage and/or curing defects, from all positions on the plant, up to 30 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and 25 cm long for Karatzova and Kontoula, of. yellow to reddish colour, of fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture, medium elasticity, shiny, excellent combu­ stibility
Leaf as described above constitutes 53% of quality I/III
Baies ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
plant except top leaves, up to
30 cm long for Macedonia Kaba Koulak and Trapezous, 20 cm long for Elassona and Phi 1, and 15 cm long for Myrodata Smyrnis, .of light yellow to reddish colour, good elasticity, shiny, fairly porous structure, fine texture and excellent combustibility.
Leaf as described above (I/II) constitutes bl% of quality I/III
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects, from all positions on the plant, up to 35 cm long for Macedonia Kaba-Koulak and Trapezous, 25 cm long for Elassona and Phi 1, and 20 cm long for Myrodata Smyrnis, of yellow to light brown colour, fairly porous structure, fairly fine texture, fairly elastic and shiny, very good combustibility
Leaf as described above constitutes 53% of quality I/III
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
.Quality I/III leaves
cured , from all positions on the plant except the first
("proto.mana"), up to 25 cm long, of yellow to deep orange colour , of good elasticity , shiny , porous structure , fine texture and excellent combustibility.
Leaf as described above ( I / II ) constitutes 47% of quality I/III
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 30 cm long, of yellow to light reddish colour , fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture , fairly elastic and shiny , excellent combustibility .
Leaf as described above ( III ) constitutes 53% of quality I/III
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
undamaged , sound , well
Quality 1/1IX leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from .all positions on the
Quality I/III leaves
Quality I/III: Leaf ripe, undamaged, sound, well cured, from all positions on the
plant except the first ("protomana"), up to 30 cm long,
colour- yellow-red, orange to reddish, of porous structure, elastic and shiny, fairly bodied, fine texture and very good combustibility.
Leaf as described above (I/II) constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
plant except top leaves, up to
20 cm long, from light yellow to light orange in colour, good elasticity, shiny, porous structure, fine texture and excellent combustibility.
Leaf as described above constitutes 47% of quality I/III
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with slight curing defects,' from
. all positions on the plant, up to 25 cm long, of yellow to light reddish colour, fairly porous structure and fairly fine texture, fairly elastic and shiny, excellent combustibility .
Leaf as described above (III) constitutes 53% of quality I/III
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with minor curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 40 cm long , colour - from light yellow to reddish or light brown , fairly porous structure , fairly elastic and shiny , fairly bodied , fairly fine texture, very good combustibility ; includes also leaves with slight disease blemishes and/or minor damage.
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
Quality I/III leaves
Leaf ripe , undamaged , sound , well cured , from all - positions on the plant except the first
(" protomana ") , up to 30 cm long , colour yellow-reddish or orange to
Leaf ripe and reasonably undamaged, with minor curing defects , from all positions on the plant, up to 40 cm long , colour from yellowish to reddish or light brown , fairly porous structure and fairly fine
porous structure , elastic and shiny ,
reddish , with
fairly bodied , good combustibility . Leaf as described above constitutes 45% of quality I/III.
fairly bodied ,
combustibility ;
leaves with slight disease blemishes and/or minor damage.
elastic and shiny , of good
includes also
Leaf as described above constitutes 55% of quality I/III.
Quality A Quality A:
Bales ("Tongas") of approximately 30 kg
Leaf fully ripe, fully developed, undamaged, sound, well cured, from the middle stalk position, of uniform medium nut-brown to nut-red colour, porous structure, fine texture, excellent combustibility.
Bales of approximately 100 kg, cases of approximately 200 kg or barrels of 240 to 280 kg
Quality A leaves
Quality A:
Leaf fully ripe, fully developed, from the middle stalk position, sound, undamaged, well cured, of a uniform lemon yellow to medium orange colour, fine texture and good combustibility.
Bales of approximately 100 kg. 13%
10 a) Kentucky and its hybrids (1) b) Moro di Cori 2.339 1.871 c) Salento
b) Brasile Selvaggio and 1.693 1.439 similar varieties
a) Paraguay and its -hybrids
b) Dragon vert and its hybrids,
a) Misionero and its hybrids 2.717 b) Rio Grande and its hybrids
9 Maryland 2.722 2,314
(1) Pursuant to Regulation (EEC) No
, laying down special measures
for certain varieties of raw tobacco from the 1981, 1982 and 1983 harvests .
Erzegovina and similar varieties
Katerini and similar varieties
a) Kaba Koulak non-classic b) Elassona, Myrodata Smyrne,
Trapezous and PHI 1 Myrodata Agrinion
20 a) Kaba Koulak non classic b) Elassona, Myrodata Smyrne
cqpic =, ; HM. VÏLIAÏIJ, EflUDtüMM fóf
