In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
Athinai Thessaloniki
London-Heathrow London-Gatwi ck Manchester Luton
Athinai Thessaloniki
Londoiv-Heathrow 1 Londoa-Gatwick 1 Manchester 2
(presented by the Commission to the Council on the basis of article 149,2 of the EEC Treaty)
( Communication from Mr. Contogeorgis to the Commission )
This document amends the proposal for a Council regulation concerning the authorisation of scheduled interregional air services
of passengers, mail and cargo between Member States, under the second paragraph of Article 149 of the EEC Treaty, in the light of the Opinion of the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee on
the subject. It also incorporates certain improvements which subsequent examination has shown to be advisable . <■
Proposal for a Council regulation concerning the authorisation of scheduled interregional air services of passengers, maiI and cargo between Member States
1. Following the resolution adopted by the European Parliament on
16 October 1981 concerning the Commission's draft regulation on interregional air services (C0M(80) 624 final) and the opinion expressed by the Economic and Social Committee on 28 October 1981, it is proposed to amend the draft regulation as provided in article 149 of the EEC Treaty.
The European Parliament has recommended five main amendments :
to delete the requirement of a minimum distance of 200 kms for the services to be operated ;
to delete any capacity limitation of the aircraft that should be authorised to operate interregional air services ;
to delete the possibility for the state of registration of the airlines to verify the economic viability of the air service applied for and to refuse its authorisation if seriously dissa­ tisfied with the results of this verification;
to give all states affected the possibility to refuse their authorisation to a service when this service is likely to cause serious environmental nuisance ;
to exclude from the scope of the regulation the main inter­ continental airports of the Community .
The main amendments recommended by the Economic and Social
Committee are the following :
i . the proposal should take the form of a directive instead of a regulation ;
ii . to delete any capacity limitation of the aircraft that should be authorised to operate interregional air services;
iii. the state of registration should also verify that the airlines wishing to operate interregional services ensure equitable working conditions
iv. states affected should have more possibilities to refuse their authorisation ;
v. the creation of user committees should not be obligatory;
vi. future amendments to the directive should be taken by unanimity instead of by qualified majority.
4. This new proposal incorporates the amendments accepted by
Mr Andriessen during the Plenary Session of the European Parliament on
16 October 1981 . Some other amendments of the European Parliament , that
Mr Andriessen undertook to consider, and of the Economic and Social
Committee have also been included. Others have
been introduced to provide greater clarity and to update the timetable. Finally, the Luxemburg airport has been classified as category 2, instead of
5 . It is suggested to the Commission :
i. to approve the annexed amendments to its initial proposal for' the reasons expressed in the explanatory note to the Council;
ii . - not to accept amendments i ., ii . and iii . of the European Parliament and amendment ii. of the Economic and Social Committee in order to
keep in line with the approach suggested by the Commission, and accepted by the European Parliament itself, with regard to introducing more flexibility in the field of access to the market but to do this gradually ;
not to accept the other amendments of the Economic and Social Committee as they might diminish the effect of the proposed regulation ;
not to accept amendment iv . of the European Parliament as the problem, of environment is already covered by art. 12 of the proposed regulation .
The Commission introduced a proposal for a Council Regulation concerning the authorisation of interregional air services between
Member States in November 1980 . The European Parliament and the Economic , and Social Committee gave their opinion on 16 and 28 October 1981 respectively. In the light of these opinions and following some addi­ tional work in the Council's working group on air transport, the Commission has decided to amend its proposal as provided for in
art . 149 of the EEC Treaty . The Commission 's draft directive on air
fares of 26 October 1981 (*) will be amended in due timeso that, when
it comes into force, amendments will be introduced into the measure ' on interregional air services for the purpose of avoiding duplication of tariff criteria and approval procedures.
Detailed amendments
Art . 6, par . 3 Drafting amendment suggested by the European Parliament
Art. 10 : Amended : to further cla'rify the considerations to which the Commission must have regard in taking a decision and to reduce the Com­ mission 's time to reachsuch a decision . The European Parliament intro­ duced two other amendments to this article suggesting that the Commisr' sion's decisions should be accompanied by a statement of reasons and
that the state of registration of the airline should comply with the Commission 's decisions within a certain period . These two amendments
have not been accepted because the effect wished Iy the European Parliament
is already achieved by the relevant provisions of the Treatyand the current practice of the Commission.
Art . 12 : Amended : to underline , as suggested by the Economic and Social Committee, the need for airlines operating interregional air services
to respect social requirements in order that working conditions do not deteriorate .
Art . 13 : Drafting amendment suggested'by the European Parliament .
Art . 15 : Amended ; to update the timetable , as suggested by the European Parliament .
sub-par . : Amended : to update the timetable ,
by the
Annex to the draft regulation : Amended :
i . to exclude from the scope of the proposed regulation the main inter­
continental airports of the Community. The purpose is to avoid an inordinate diversion of intercontinental traffic from existing gateways and not to disrupt the main intracommunity trunks routes. This amendment w&s suggested by the European Parliament .
ii.To classify Luxemburg airport as category 2 instead of 1.
In reaximing the criteria used for determining the categorie of airports
which were based on the percentage of international traffic, it was felt that, since Luxemburg airport is the only airport of the country, its classification as categorie 1 would in practice exclude it from , the scope of the proposed regulation. In addition its traffic volume
is relatively modest. This point has been made also by the Luxemburg delegation during the discussions in the Council's working group.
3. The state of registration shall verify the economic and technical vialibility of the Communiry air carrier and shall refuse authorization only if it is seriously dissatisfied with the results of this verification.
1. In the event of a dispute concerning the authorization of or the tariffs for an
interregional air service/ the parties to the dispute shall attempt/ by a method of their choice/ to settle the dispute within three months. If disagreement persists thereafter any of the parties may refer the dispute to the Commission without prejudice to their right to submit it to a competent court .
2. On receipt of a case, as provided for
in paragraph 1/ the Commission shall request the parties and particuarly the State resis­ ting authorization to submit their observa­ tions and all relevant information. It shall/ within 2 months,provide for joint consulta­ tion of the States affected/ the State of registration and the Community air carrier. The Commission may also consult user repre­ sentatives/ airports affected or independent experts.
3. The Commission shall/Within 5 months of
receiving the case/notify its decision to the Member State concerned and communicate
that decision to the other parties.
4. The decision of the Commission shall ^ published.
1. In the event of a dispute concerning the authorization of an interregional air ser­ vice/ the parties to the dispute shell attempt to reach a settlement withih three months by a method of their choice which may include an arbitration procedure . If disagreement persists thereafter/ any of the parties may refer the dispute to the Commission without prejudice to their right
to submit it to a competent court. £'■
2. On receipt of a case/ as provi-ded1 for
in paragraph 1/ the Commission shaljl request the parties and particularly the State resisting authorization to submit their observations and all relevant information.
It shall/ within 2 months/ provide for joint consultation of the States affected/ the State of registration and the Community air carrier. The Commission may also consult user representatives/ airports affected or independent experts.
3. The' Commission shall determine/in accor­ dance with the. criteria laid down by this
regulation/ whether the proposed service shall be authorized.
4. The Commission shall/ within 4 months of receiving the case/ notify its decision to the Member States and the airlines.
5. The decision of the Commission ^hall be published. •'
Articles 1 to 5 : unchanged Article 6, par. 1 and 2 : unchanged
3. The state of registration shall verify the financial standing and technical viability of the Community air carrier and shall refuse authorization only if
it is seriously dissatisfied with the results of this verification.
Article 6, par. 4 : unchanged Article 7 to 9 : unchanged
The provisions of this Regulation shall
not prejudice the national and local tech­ nical and operational requirements of the States concerned, to the extent that these requirements do not discriminate against interregional air services.
Community air carriers operating interre­ gional air services covered by this Regu­ lation shall in each State affected enjoy the most favourable treatment granted by that Member State on the same or neigh­ bouring routes to other air carriers, in
The provisions of this Regulation shall not prejudice the national and local technical , operational and social requi rements of the States affected, to the extent that these requirements do not discriminate against interregional air services.
Community air carriers operating inter­ regional air services covered by this Regu­ lation shall in each state affected enjoy
the most favourable treatment granted by that
member state on the same or neighbouring routes to other air carriers with respect to staff qualifications and ground servicing agreements , including fuel, spares and navigational
particular with respect to fuel , staff qualifications and similar
In the light of the experience . acquired , the Council may, as from 1 January 1984, acting by a qualified majority on a pro­ posal from the Commission and after con­ sulting the Parliament, a.viend the pro­ visions of this regulation,,
This regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1981 .
In the light , of the experience acquired ,
the Council may, as from 1 January 1985, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the Parliament, amend the provisions of this regulation.
This regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1982 .
Article 14 : unchanged Article 15
second subparagraph : unchanged
Amended text
Airport Category initial classification
Athinai 1
London-Heathrow London-Gatwiok Manchester Luton Birmingham Olasgovr
AH other airports *
GRECIA Athinai Thessaloniki
London-Heathrow London-Gatwick Manchester Luton Birmingham Glasgow
Athinai Thessaloniki
London-Heathrow London-Gatwick Manchester Luton
Paris-Orly Paris–Bourget
CRTECHFITLAND Athinai 1 Thessaloniki 2
rnnrcw^rrm Londort-Heathrow 1
Birmingham 2 Glasgow 2
Athinai 1 Thessaloniki 2
London-Heathrow 1 London-Gatwi ck 1 Manchester 2 : Luton 2 :
GRIEKENLAND Athinai 1 Thessalomki 2
London-Heathrow London-Gatwi ck Manchester Luton
Amended Proposal for a
concerning the authorization of scheduled interregional air services
of passengers- mail and cargo between Member States
(presented by the Commission to the Council on the basis of Article 149,2 of the EEC Treaty)
The Commission introduced a proposal for a Council Regulation concerning the authorisation of interregional air services between Member States in November 1980. The European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee gave their opinion on 16 and 28 October 1981 respectively. In the light of these opinions and following some addi­ tional work in the Council 's working group on air transport , the Commission has decided to amend its proposal as provided for in
art . 149 of the EEC Treaty . The Commission 's draft directive on air fares of 26 October 1981 (*) will be amended in due timeso that, when
it comes into force, amendments will be introduced into the measure ' on interregional air services for the purpose of avoiding duplication of tariff criteria and approval procedures.
Detailed amendments
Art . 6, par . 3 Drafting amendment suggested by the European Parliament
Art. 10 : Amended : to further clarify the considerations to which the Commission must have regard in taking a decision and to reduce the Com­ mission 's time to reachsuch a decision . The European Parliament intro­ duced two other amendments to this article suggesting that the Commis-v sion's decisions should be accompanied by a statement of reasons and
that the state of registration of the airline should comply with the Commission 's decisions within a certain period . These two amendments
have not been accepted because the effeet wished fcy the European Parliament
is already achieved by the relevant provisions of the Treatyand the current practice of the Commission.
Art. 12:Amended : to underline, as suggested by the Economic and Social Committee, the need for airlines operating interregional air services
to respect social requirements in order that working conditions do not deteriorate .
Art . 13 : Drafting amendment suggested by the European Parliament .
Art . 15:Amended : to update the timetable , as suggested by the European Parliament .
sub-par . : Amended : to update the timetable , as suggested by the
Annex to the draft regulation : Amended :
i. to exclude from the scope of the proposed regulation the main inter­
continental airports of the Community. The purpose is to avoid an inordinate diversion of intercontinental traffic from existing gateways and not to disrupt the main intracommunity trunks routes. This amendment was suggested by the European Parliament.
ii.To classify Luxemburg airport as category 2 instead of 1 .
In reaximing the criteria used for determining the categorieof airports which were based on the percentage of international traffic, it was
felt that, since Luxemburg airport is the only airport of the country, its classification as categorie 1 would in practice exclude it from
the scope of the proposed regulation. In addition its traffic volume is relatively modest. This point has been made also by the Luxemburg delegation during the discussions in the Council 's working group .
3. The state of registration shall verify the economic and technical vialibility of the Communiry air carrier and shall refuse authorization only if it is seriously dissatisfied with the results of this verification .
In the event of a dispute concerning
ttje authorization of or the tariffs for an interregional air service, the parties to tlje dispute shall attempt, by a method of tl^eir choice, to settle the dispute within ttjree months . If disagreement persists thereafter any of the parties may refer the dispute to the Commission without prejudice t<j their right to submit it to a competent
2« On receipt of a case, as provided for
ii} paragraph 1, the Commission shall request ttje parties and particuarly the State resis­ ting authorization to submit their observa­ tions and all relevant information . It shall, within 2 months, provide for joint consulta­ tion of the States affected, the State of registration and the Community air carrier. The Commission may also consult user repre­ sentatives, airports affected or independent experts.
shall , within
5 months of
vice, the parties to the dispute shall attempt to reach a settlement within three months by a method of their choice which may include an arb itration procedure . If disagreement persi sts thereafter , any of the parties may refer the dispute to the Commission without prejudice to their right to submit it to a competent court.'
2 . On receipt of a case , as provided for
in paragraph 1, the Commission shall request the parties and particularly the State resisting authorization to submit their observations and all relevant information .
It shall, within 2 months, provide for joint consultation of the States affected, the State of registration and the Community air carrier . The Commission may also consult user representatives, airports affected or independent experts.
3. The Commission shall determine,in accoi– dance with the criteria laid down by this
regulation , whether the proposed service shall be authorized .
4. The Commission shall, within 4 months of receiving the case , notify its decision to the Member States and tne airlines .
5. The decision of the Commission shall be published .
3 . The Commission
receiving the case,notify its decision to the Member State concerned and communicate that decision to the other parties.
4. The decision of the Commission shall be published.
Articles 1 to 5 : unchanged
Article 6, par. 1 and 2 : unchanged
3. The state of registration shall verify the financial standing and technical viability of the Community air carrier and shall refuse authorization only if
it is seriously results of this
Article 7 to 9 : unchanged
dissatisfied with the verification .
1 . In the event
authorization of_an interregional air ser-
of a dispute concerning the
The provisions of this Regulation shall not prejudice the national and local tech­ nical and operational requirements of the States concerned, to the extent that these requirements do not discriminate against interregional air services .
Community air carriers operating interre­ gional air services covered by this Regu­ lation shall in each State affected enjoy the most favourable treatment granted by that Member State on the same or neigh­ bouring routes to other air carriers, in
The provisions of this Regulation shall not prejudice the national and local technical, operational and social requirements of the States affected, to the extent that these requirements do not discriminate against interregional air services .
Community air carriers operating intei–
regional air services covered by this Regu­ lation shall in each state affected enjoy
the most favourable treatment granted by that member state on the same or neighbouring routes to other air carriers with respect to staff qualifications and ground servicing agreements , including fuel , spares and navigational
particular with respect to
staff qualifications and similar
In the light of the experience.acquired, the Council may, as from 1 January 1984, acting by a qualified majority on a pro­ posal from the Commission and after con­
In the light of the experience acquired,
the Council may, as from 1 January 1985, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the Parliament , amend the provisions of this regulation .
This regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1982 .
sulting the Parliament , amend visions of this regulation .
the pro­
This regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1981 .
Article 11 : unchanged Article 12
Article 14 : unchanged Article 15
second subparagraph : unchanged
Airport Category amended classificatioi
Airport Category initial classification
Amended text
Glasgow All other airports:
