In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
63,67 51,21 0,01 0,29 29,38 37,62 5,23 5,43 7,88 Irland 0,01 0,02 0,02
tV'I^iccmpliaricevntJ*--Articles 25 and,64 of th>'Act ;pf'Accession-
the C<^mun1t^a^||t
^Ututed and the HeU'e^^jRepubtic^ ,·;
■•- asedrdance with".-'a : t1metablfr-''which;ypr6>/1d'(ed"iitpr,':'B^j"eduction of ^ v-;
■ ^ January#982 to be made on the basic duty»"aa defined Article ,24/ inaroely^iba the duty actually imposed on 1 July 1980 .
r to 15 % ofithe.duties included in the C.ommon'Customs'Tariffup to v ,i a maximum,quantityv,of 430 OOOvhectolitres as provided for in
of, 2tj Noveinber■1979^?^-on the Community-
tariff quota opened for 1980 | - } } , ~ ^^AA'A:.::\- - to the Common (Jtiktoms Tariff duties in respect of additional '
Community as atH:p^ ituted oh *imppKs ofrwines originating . entirely in Greece must be equivalent to 80 % . of the abovementioned
, basic duties/.namely, to 12 % Of the . Common Customs Tariff duty -' uptothemaximu^\fluantityof430000-hectolitresandto80%of•' .
•' theCommonXustomsTariff'dutyforthesurplus-;quantities;
2. AlthoughtheCommissionisoftheopinionthatitshouldnotbe necessary to take strict measures to prevent the possibility of this quantity of 430 000 hectolitres being exceeded, it is nevertheless putting, forward the solution adopted by the Council for 1981, namely the opening of a Community tariff quota in the Community of Nine with a volume of 430 000 hectolitres which, after constitution of a Community reserve of 10/o, would be shared among the Member States concerned according to the percentages applied in 1981.
be progressively abolished,in
 Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC ) No
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for wines of fresh grapes and grape
must with^fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol, falling within heading No 22.05 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating entirely in Greece (1982)
Having regard to the 1979 Act of Accession, and in particular Article 72 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas, in compliance' with Articles 25 and 64 of the abovementioned Act, customs duties on imports between the Community of Nine and the Hellenic Republic are to be progressively abolished in accordance with a timetable which provides for a reduction of 20°/° on ' January 1982 to be made on the basic duty, as defined in Article 24 of tfie said Act; whereas fof wines from fresh grapes and grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol, falling within heading No 22.05 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating entirely in Greece, the customs duties applicable in the Community of Nine from 1 January 1982 wi" be
equivalent to the duties applied in the framework of the tariff quota opened for 1980 by Regulation ( EEC) No. 2634/79 (1), reduced by 20%,
up to a maximum quantity of 430 000 hectolitres and to 80% of the Common
Customs Tariff duty for up to a maximum quantity of 430 000 hecto-
litres and to 80% of duty for the surplus quantities ; whereas it is therefore necessary , in order to determine the duty applicable on imports of such wines, to open for
the products concerned , from
1 January 1982, a Community tariff quota of 430 000 hectolitres at the rates of duty shown in the table appearing in Article 1 .
trends for the product concerned in the Member importers of the Community of Nine equal and - States, the quota volume should be divided into two
Whereas it is in particular necessary to guarantee all
uninterrupted access to the said quota and uninterrupted application of the rate laid down for that quota to all imports into the said Community of the products concerned until the quota has been used up; whereas having regard to the above principles the
instalments , the first instalment being allocated among the Member States and the second forming a
reserve intended ultimately to cover the requirements of the Member States, should their initial share be
Community nature of the quota can be respected by allocating the Community tariff quota among the Member States; whereas, to reflect most accurately the actual development of the market in the products concerned, such allocation should be in proportion to the needs of the Member States, assessed by reference both to the statistics relating to imports from Greece
over a representative period, and to the economic outlook for the quota period concerned;
Whereas, on the basis of the statistics at present available, imports from Greece into the Community of Nine in 1977, 1978 and 1979 of the product concerned have developed as follows and represent the following percentages of total imports into the Community :
Whereas, taking into account these figures and the foreseeable development of the market in the products concerned during 1982 the initial shares in the volume of the quota may be fixed approximately at the following percentages:
Germany 29-35 France 4-43 Ireland 0-35
Whereas in order to take into account the import
 used up; whereas, in order to ensure a certain degree of security to importers, the first instalment of the Community quota should be determined at a relatively high level, which under present circum­ stances could be 90 % of the quota volume ;
Whereas the initial shares may be used up fairly quickly; whereas, therefore, to avoid disruption of supplies any Member State which has almost used up its initial share, should draw a supplementary share from the Community reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member State as each one of its supp­ lementary shares is almost used up, and as many times as the reserve allows; whereas the initial and supplementary shares must be valid until the end of the quota period; whereas this form of administration requires close collaboration between the Member States and the Commission, and the Commission must be in a position to follow the extent to which the tariff quota has been used up and to inform the Member States thereof;
Whereas if, at a specified date in the quota period, a considerable quantity of the initial quota share remains in any Member State, it is essential that the Member State should return a certain proportion thereof to the reserve, in order to avoid part of the Community quota remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others ;
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy
of Luxembourg are united in and jointly represented u by the Benelux Economic Union, any measure , concerning the administration of the quota shares v;
Wine of fresh grapes; grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol :
B. Wine in bottles with 'mushroom' stoppers held in place by ties or fastenings, and wine otherwise put up with an excess pressure of not less than 1 bar but less than 3 bar, measured at a temperature of 20 °C
C. Other:
I. Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 13° , in con­
b) More than 2 litres
II. Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 13° but not ex- ceeding 15°, in containers holding:
(') The exchange rate to be applied in converting into national currencies the ECU in which the customs duty is expressed shall be the representative rate applicable to wine, if such a rate is fixed for the purpose of the common agricultural policy.
allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any of its members,
Within this tariff quota, the Common Customs Tariff duty shall be reduced to the levels indicated in the
From 1
January to 31
Community tariff quota of 430 000 hectolitres shall be opened in the Community of Nine of wine of fresh grapes and grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol with the exception of resinated wines (retsina) falling within heading No 22.05 of the Common Customs Tariff, originating entirely in Greece.
Rate of duty
C. III. Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 15° but not ex- ceeding 18°, in containers holding:
a) 2 litres or less : 2. Other
b) More than 2 litres: 3. Other
IV. Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 18° but not ex- ceeding 22°, in containers holding:
a) 2 litres or less : 2. Other
b) More than 2 litres : 3. Other
V. Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 22° , in containers holding :
Rate of duty
0-1 ECU per hi and per % vol.
0-1 ECU per hi and >er °/o vol. (')
b) More than 2 litres
(') The exchange rate to be applied in converting into national currencies the ECU in wh'ch the customs duty is expressed shall be the representative rate applicable to wine, if such a rate is fixed for the purpose ot the common agricultural policy.
1. The tariff quota referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be divided into two instalments.
2. A first instalment, amounting to 387 000 hectolitres, shall be shared among the Member States; the shares which, subject to Article 5, shall be valid until 31 December 1 982shall be as follows :
3. The second instalment of 43 000 hectolitres shall constitute the reserve.
1. If 90 % or more of any Member State's initial .share, as laid d> >v. n in Article 2 (2), or 90 % or more of that share Itss the amount returned to the reserve
where Article 5 has been applied, has been exhausted, that Member State shall without delay, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share equal to 15 % of its initial share, rounded up to the next unit where appropriate, to the extent that the amount in the reserve allows.
2. If, after its initial share has been exhausted, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by that
 Member State has been exhausted , it shall , in the manner provided for in paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7 • 5 % of its initial share .
3. If, after its second share has been exhausted, 90 % or more of the third share drawn by that Member State has been used up, it shall, in the manner provided for in paragraph 1, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall be applied until the reserve is exhausted .
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may draw smaller shares than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that those shares might not be used up. They shall inform the Commission of their reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1982 *
Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 October 1982 , the unuSed portion
of theirinitial share which, on 15 September 192 , is< in excess of 20 % of the initial amount. They may
return a;greater portion if there are grounds fori believing thatjsuch portion may not be used in full.
The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 1982^. notify the Commission of the total imports of the products concerned effected under and charged against the Community quota up to and including 15 September 1982and, where appropriate, of the proportion of their initial shares that they are
returning to the reserve.
The Member States shall be authorized to divide the shares allocated to them or which they have drawn
from the reserve into two parts, according to their foreseeable use, reserving one part for wines intended for direct consumption and the other for wines intended for processing.
However, during the marketing year and according to the actual needs which arise, they shall make the necessary adjustments to the original allocations.
The Commission shall keep account of the shares opened by Member States in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 and shall inform eacfc of them of the extent to which the reserve has been used as soon as it receives the notification.
The Commission shall, not later than 5 October .198 2 notify the Member States of the state of the reserve after the return of shares pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which uses up the reserve is limited to the balance available and, for this purpose, shall specify the amount thereof to the Member State which makes the final drawing.
1. Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that supplementary shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that charges may be made without interruption against their combined shares of the Community quota.
2. Member States shall ensure that importers of the said products established in their territory have free access to the shares allocated to them or drawn from the reserve.
3. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined on the basis of the
imports of the products in question submitted to the customs authorities under the cover of declarations
that they have been made available for free circu­ lation .
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports of the products in question actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely in order to ensure that this Regu­ lation is complied with.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1982 .
 Member State has been exhausted, it shall, in the manner provided for in paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7 • 5 % of its initial share .
3. If, after its second share has been exhausted, 90 % or more of the third share drawn by that Member State has been used up, it shall, in the manner provided for in paragraph 1, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall be applied until the reserve is exhausted .
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may draw smaller shares than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that those shares might not be used up. They shall inform the Commission of their reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1982 .
Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 October 1 982 , ths unuSed portion
of theif'initial share which, on 15 September 19®, is< in excess of 20 % of the initial amount. They may
return a'greater portion if there are grounds fori believing that ySuch portion may not be used in full.
The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 1982^ notify the Commission of the total imports of the products concerned effected under and charged against the Community quota up to and including 15 September 1982and, where appropriate, of the proportion of their initial shares that they are
returning to the reserve.
The Member States shall be authorized to divide the shares allocated to them or which they have drawn
from the reserve into two parts, according to their foreseeable use, reserving one part for wines intended for direct consumption and the other for wines intended for processing.
However, during the marketing year and according to the actual needs which arise, they shall make the necessary adjustments to the original allocations.
The Commission shall keep account of the shares opened by Member States in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 and shall inform eacfr of them of the extent to which the reserve has been used as soon as it receives the notification.
The Commission shall, not later than 5 October 1 982 notify the Member States of the state of the reserve after the return of shares pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which uses up the reserve is limited to the balance available and, for this purpose, shall specify the amount thereof to the Member State which makes the final drawing.
1. Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that supplementary shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that charges may be made without interruption against their combined shares of the Community quota.
2. Member States shall ensure that importers of the said products established in their territory have free access to the shares allocated to them or drawn from the reserve.
3. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined on the basis of the
imports of the products in question submitted to the customs authorities under the cover of declarations
that they have been made available for free circu­ lation .
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports of the products in question actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely in order to ensure that this Regu­ lation is complied with.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1982 .
States '°n SHa11 ^ Binding in iB entirety and dire«ly applicable in all Member Done at Brussels.
For the Council The President
a) twee liter of minder: 2. andere
a) twee liter of minder: 2. andere
a) twee liter of minder
Brussels - 8 July 1981
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC )
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for wines of fresh grapes and grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol, falling within heading No 22.05 of
the Common
Customs Tariff and originating entirely in Greece
( submitted to the Council by the
In compliance with Articles 25 and 64 of the Act of Accession customs duties on imports between the Community as at present consti­ tuted and the Hellenic Republic shall be progressively abolished in accordance with a timetable which provides for a reduction of
20 % on 1 January 1982 to be made on the basic duty, as defined in Article 24, namely, on the duty actually imposed on 1 July 1980.
The oasic duty in respect of wines originating entirely in Greece' is equivalent :
- to 15 % of the duties included in the Common Customs Tariff up to a maximum quantity of 430 000 hectolitres as provided for in
Regulation (EEC) N° 2634/79 of 20 November 1979
. on the Community
tariff quota opened for 1980 ;
- to the Common Customs Tariff duties in respect of additional
Therefore as from 1 January 1982 .the duties to be imposed in the Community as at present constituted on imports of wines originating , entirely in Greece must be equivalent to 80 % of the abovementioned basic duties, namely, to 12 % of the Common Customs Tariff duty , L up to the maximum quantity of 430 000' hectolitres and to 80 X of
the Common Customs Tariff duty for the surplus quantities. ' ,
Although the Commission is of the opinion that it should not be necessary to take strict measures to prevent the possibility of this quantity of A30 000 hectolitres being exceeded, it is nevertheless putting forward the solution adopted by the Council ■for 1981 , namely the opening 'of a Community tariff quota in the Community of Nirve with a volume of 430 000 hectolitres wh";ch, aft»r constitution of a Community ressrve of 10%, would oe shared among the Member States concerned according to the percentages apDlied in 1981-
 Proposal for a . COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC )
openvng, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for wines of fresh grapes and grape
must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol, falling within heading No 22.05 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating entirely in Greece (1982)
Having regard to the 1979 Act of Accession, and in particular Article 72 thereof.
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, , Whereas, pursuant to Articles 25 and 64
Community nature of the quota can wr ,»«pected by . allocating the Community tariff quota among the Member States; whereas, to reflect most accurately the actual development of the market in the products concerned, such allocation should be in proportion to the needs of the Member States, assessed by reference both to the statistics relating to imports from Greece
over a representative period, and to the economic
outlook for the quota period concerned ; ouiiook ror tne quota penoa concernea;
Whereas, on the basis of the -statistics at present;
Of the abovementioned Act , customs
available, imports from Greece into the Community Ij , available, imports from £reece into the Community
duties on imports between the Community
of Nine and the Hellenic Republic are to
be progressively abolished in accor-' | dance with a timetable which provides ,'j ■ for a reduction of 20% as from 1 January 1982 to be made on the basic duty, as defined in Article 24 of the said Act; whereas for wines from fresh grapes and grape must with fermentation arrested
bv the addition Of alcohol , falling
within heading No 22.05 of the Common _ ; Customs Tariff and originating entirely
concerned have developed as follows , and represent
in Greece, the Customs duties appli- cable in the Community of Nine from
Ireland 0-01 Ireland 0-01
Italy 0-06
/ ;– 1 January 1982 will be equivalent to the
duties applied within the limits Of the Whereas, taking into account these figures and the tariff quota opened for 1980 by Regulatio^oreseeablc development, of the market in the
(EEC) No 2634/79 (1), reduced by 20%,
up to a maximum quantity of 430 000 : hectolitres and to 80% of the Common
Customs Tariff duty for the surplus quantities ; whereas it is therefore necessary * in order to determine the
duty applicable on imports of such wines, to open for the products concerned, from 1 January 1982, a Community tariff quota of 430 000 hectolitres at the rates of
duty shown in the -table appearing in .
^ iu'FO..s ii is in particular necessary to guarantee all , trends for the • product concerned mi the Member inirv)nrr.s of [lie C.'oinniiifiiiy of Nine equal and Slates, the quoin volume should bp divided into two
tliM th a'i
to <!,«• saiii ' quota " and instalments , the first instalment being allocated
(jf -the raitc 'laid- down for among th<_; Member States a.-id the. second lori'ninp; fi sft'f. .I*? said Community of reserve intended. v!?iniau-ly to cover the rrouiVciror.ts t'- .'qu'ota W;i~ u.w.'j x-.r'i.hf i-vtia! s!•.1•^ te
of Nine in 1977, 1978 and 1979 of the product , , i' , , , • , , v
lhe fol!owi petcent^e5 of lotal imports inKw the the following percentages of total imports into the
Community :
products concerned during 1982 the initial shares in the volume of the quota may be fixed approximately at the following percentages:
' Germany 29-35 France ; 4-43 Ireland 0-35
Whereas in order to take, into account the import
 used up; whereas, in order to ensure a certain degree * of security to importers, the first instilment of the Community quota should be determined at a relatively high level, which under present circum-
stances could be 90 °/o of the quota volume; ^ Whereas the initial shares may be used up fairly
quickly; whereas, therefore, to avoid disruption of supplies any Member State which has almost used up its initial share, should- draw a supplementary share from the Community reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member State as each one of its supp- lemcntary shares is almost used up, and as many
times as the reserve,allows; whereas the initial and supplementary shares must be valid until the end of
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united in and jointly represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any measure concerning the administration of the quota shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any of its members,
NIMEXE Rate code of
II. Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 13° but not ex- ceeding i5° , in containers holding : .
Wine of fresh grapes; grape must with fermentation arrested by the addition of alcohol: .
B. Wine in bottles with 'mushroom' - stoppers held in place by ties or fastenings, and wine otherwise put up with an excess pressure of not less than 1 bar but less than 3 bar, measured at a temperature of 20 0C
C. Other:
I. Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume not exceeding 13e, in con­ - tainers holding:
the quota period; whereas this form of administration
requires close collaboration between the Member
States and the Commission, and the Commission . Community tariff quota of 430 000 hectolitres shall
must be in a position to follow the extent to which the tariff quota has been used up and to inform the Member States thereof-
Whereas if, at a specified date in the quota period, a. considerable quantity of the initial quota share remains in any Member State, it is essential that the
Member State should return a certain proportion . thereof to the reserve, in order to avoid part of the Community quota remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others ;
be opened in the Community of Nine of wine of fresh grapes and grape must with fermentation
arrested by the addition of alcohol with the exception of resinated wines (retsina) falling within heading No 22.05 of the Common Customs .Tariff, originating entirely in Greece,
within this tariff quota, the Common Customs Tariff duty shall bc re<jucca to the levels indicated in the table below*
(') The exchange rate to bc appiird in converting into nat:onsi currencies the ECU »n whkh the customs duty ts expressed shall bc the representative rate applicable to wine, sf Si-'ch a rate is fixed for the purpese o* th-e common agricultural policy.
From 1 January to 31 December 1982, a
Rate of duty
0-1 ECU per hi and per % vol.
0-1 ECU per hl and jer "/a vol. (')
C. III. Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding i5° but not ex- ceeding 18°, in containers holding:
a) 2 litres or less: 2. Other
b) More than 2 litres: 3. Other .
IV. Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding Ιδ* but not ex- ceeding 22°, in containers holding:
a) 2 litres or less : 2 . Other
b) More than 2 litres: 3. Other
V, Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 22° , in containers holding :
b) More than 2 litres
(') The exchange rate to be applied in converting into national currencies the ECU in which the customs duty is expressed shall be the representative rate applicable to wine, if such a rate is fixed for the purpose of the common agricultural policy.
1. The tariff quota referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be divided into two instalments.
2. A first instalment, amounting to 387 000 hectolitres, shall be shared among the Member States; the shares which, subject to Article 5, shall be valid, until 31 December 1 98 2shall be as follows :
3. The second instalment of 43 000 hectolitres shall constitute the reserve.
1. If 90% or more of any Member State's initial share, as laid down in Article 2 (2), or 90 % or more of that share less the amount returned to the reserve
where Article 5 has been applied, has been exhausted, that Member State shall without delay, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share equai to 15 % of its initial share, rounded up to the next unit where appropriate, to the extent that the amount in the reserve allows.
2. If, after its initial share has been exhausted, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by that
 Member State has been exhausted , it shall , in the manner provided for in paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5 % of its initial share.
3. If, after its second share has been exhausted, 90 % or moft of the third share drawn by that Member State has been used up, it shall, in the manner provided for in paragraph I, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall be applied until the reserve is exhausted .
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs S, 2 and 3, Member States may draw smaller shares than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that those shares might not be used up. They shall inform the Commission of their reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each ot the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 3 1 December 1982 .
Member States shall return to the reserve, not iater than 1 October 1982 , the unused portion -
of theirinitial share which, on 15 September 19S2, is. in excess of 20% of the initial Tmounu They may
return a:greatcr portion if there are grounds for, believing that .'such portion may not be used in full.
The^ Member States shall, riot iater than 1 October 198£. notify the Commission of the total imports of the products concerned effected under and charged against the Community quota up to and including 15 September 1982at)d. where appropriate, of the proportion of their initial sisares that they are
returning to the reserve.
The Member States shall be authorized to divide the shares allocated to them or which the/ have drawn froin the reserve into two parts, according to their foreseeable use, reserving one part for wines intended for direct consumption and dv; other for T.'ines intended for processing.
However, during the marketing year and according to the actual needs which s.rist, ir.cy shall ;n:ke necessary adjustments tc the original allocations.
The Commission shall keep account of the shares opened Dy Member States in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 and shall inform each of them of the extent, to which the reserve has been used as soon as it receives the notification.
The Commission shall, not iater than 5 October 1982 notify the Member States of the state of the reserve after the return of shares pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which uses up the reserve is limited to the balance available and, for this purpose, shah specify the amount thereof to the Member State which makes the final drawing.
1. . Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that supplementary shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that charges may be made without interruption against their combined shares of the Community quota.
2. Member States shall ensure that importers of the said products established in their territory have free access to the shares allocated to them or drawn from the reserve.
3. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined on the basis of the
imports of the products in question submitted to the
customs authorities under the cover of declarations
thai they have been made available for free circu­ lation .
At the request of the Commission, Member Sites' shall infor.-rf it of imports of the products in question actually charged against their shares. '
The Member
Article 10 States and the
cooperate closely in order to ensure that this Regu­ lation is complied with.
R?g»j!.aiicn shall enter into force or? I January 1982 .
ih'? Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. ' '
■ For the Council The President
