In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
a M. \Vl.HRi.\S (tel. 2362) tel. seer. 2363, ban an tier!. 11/ KHi
Communication to the Commission (submitted by Mr. Narjes)
1. At the Ninth Session of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme (Nairobi , Hay 1981 ), a draft decision on the protection of the ozone layer sponsored by Community Member States was adopted .
The decision provides, inter alia, for the initiation of work aimed at the "elaboration of a global framework Convention for the protection of the ozone layer ".
2. At its meeting on 11 June, the Council of Ministers for Environment endorsed the above decision and invited the Commission to submit to the
Council as soon as possible a proposal for a Council decision authorising the Commission to participate on behalf of the Community in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of
the ozone layer .
3. The object of the enclosed proposal therefore is the following : The Council should :
- adopt the decision for which a proposal is annexed athorising the Commission to participate on behalf of the Community in the ne­ gotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection
of the ozone layer .
 Proposal for a Council decision authorising the Commission to participate on behalf of the Community in the negotations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer .
1. At the ninth session of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), held in Nairobi 13-27 May 1981, a draft decision on the protection of the ozone layer sponsored by Community
Member States was adopted ( reference : Governing Council decision n° 9/ 13-B ). The text was the subject of Community coordination within the Council framework both in Brussels and during the Session 'of the Governing Council in Nairobi .
2. The decision provides, inter alia, for the initiation of work aimed at the "elaboration of a global framework convention for the protection of the ozone layer ".
The decision establishes for this purpose "an ad hoc working group of legal and technical experts nominated by interested Governments and intergovernmental organisations, which shall report through the
Executive Director (of UNEP), to the Governing Council on the progress of its work".
(The text of the decision is to be found in Council document 7666/81,
3. It is envisaged to hold the first meeting of the ad hoc working group in Stockholm, at the invitation of the Swedish Government on
20 - 29 January 1982.
 In addition, the Coordinating •Committee on the ozone layer - a scientific body set up by UNEP, which holds yearly meetings and which will meet again next October, will be called upon, in accordance withthe above mentioned Governing Council decision, to contribute to the work of the ad hoc working group.
A. The Community has already been active in meeting the concerns expressed at national and international level for the protection of the ozone layer, notably through the Council resolution of 30 May 1978*, and the Council decision of 26 March 1980* (which stipulated that the production capacity
of CFC's 11 and 12 should not be increased in any Member State and that by 31 December 1981 there should be a reduction of at least 30 % compared with 1976 levels of the use of the CFC's in aerosols) and by promoting action on an international level .
5. The recent communication from the Commission to the Council entitled "Chlorofluorocarbons in the Environment Information and basis for evaluation for the pursuit of Community policy " ( reference : C0M(81 ) 261 fin
■ recalls these measures and includes proposals for further action.
6. The above communication was examined by the Council of Ministers for Environment at its meeting on 11 June 1981, where it was decided, inter ali to invite the Commission to submit to the Council as soon as possible a proposal for a Council decision authorising the Commission to participate on behalf of the Community in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer.
The present proposal is in response to that invitation.
7. In view of the above mentioned considerations therefore, and in order
to ensure the participation of the Community as such in the negotiations
for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer,
the Commission hereby recommends that the Council should as soon as possibls
- adopt the decision for which a proposal is annexed authorising the Commission to participate on behalf of the Community in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer
 Proposal for a Counci I . decision authorising the Commission to participate on behalf of the Community in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community ,
Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission,
, Whereas the aim of the Community environment policy as stated in
: the Declaration of the Council of the European Communities and of I
' the representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting
in the Council of 22 November 1973 on the programme of action of the European Communities on the environment*, supplemented by the Resolution of the Council of the European Communities and of the representatives
of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the Council of
17 May 1977 on the continuation and implementation of an European Community policy and action programme on the environment**, namely
the improvement of the quality and setting of life, of the surroundings and living conditions of the peoples of the Community, implies, in
particular , preventing , reducing and as far as possible , eliminating pollution and nuisances as well as seeking common solutions to environmental problems with States outside the Community, particularly in international organisations ;
Whereas in accordance with this policy the Community has already adopted measures concerning ch lorof luorocarbons in the environment , and pursued actions on an . international level , particularly in the framework of
the United Nations Environment Programme ;
Whereas the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme, at its ninth session, decided to initiate work aimed at the elaboration of . a global framework Convention for the protection of
the ozone layer ;
 Whereas in view of the above mentioned considerations, its -is necessary for the Community to participate in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer;
The Commission is authorised to participate in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer.
The Commission will conduct these negotiations in consultation with
representatives of the Member States and in accordance with the
directives annexed .
 Directives for the negotiations /:
The negotiations should aim towards the elaboration of a global framework Convention, which would cover monitoring, scientific research and the development of best available and economically feasible technologies to limit and gradually reduce emissions of ozone-depleting substances, as wel as the development of appropriate strategies and policies, in consistency with policies being developed in the Community.
The negotiations should also aim at ensuring that appropriate provisions
enabling the Community to become a Contracting Party be contained in
the Convention .
authorising the Commission to participate on behalf of the Community in the negotiations for a global framework Convention
on the protection of the ozone layer
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
authorising the Commission to._i .... ~."
to participate on behalf of the Community in the negotations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer .
1. At the ninth session of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), held in Nairobi 13-27 Hay 1981/ a draft decision on the protection of the ozone layer sponsored by Community Member States was adopted ( reference : Governing Council decision n° 9/ 13 The text was the subject of Community coordination within the Council framework both in Brussels and during the Session of the Governing Counc in Nairobi .
2. The decision provides/, inter alia/ for the initiation of work aimed at the "elaboration of a global framework convention for the protection of the ozone layer ".
The decision establishes for this purpose "an ad hoc working group of legal and technical experts nominated by interested Governments and intergovernmental organisations/ which shall report through the Executive Director (of UNEP)/ to the Governing Council on the progress
of its work".
(The text of the decision is to be found in Council document 7666/81/ ENV 107/ page 7).
3. It is envisaged to hold the first meeting of the ad hoc working group in Stockholm/ at the invitation of the Swedish Government on
20 - 29 January 1982.
 In addition, the Coordinating -Committee on the ozone layer - a scientific body set up by UNEP, which holds yearly meetings and which will meet again . next October, will be called upon, in accordance with.^the above mentioned Governing Council decision, to contribute to the work of the ad hoc
4. The Community has already been active in meeting the concerns expressed at national and international level for the protection of the ozone layer, notably through the Council resolution of 30 May 1978*, and the Council decision of 26 March 1980 (which stipulated that the production capacity of CFC's 11 and 12 should not be increased in any Member State and that by 31 December 1981 there should be a reduction of at least 30 % compared with 1976 levels of the use of the CFC's in aerosols) and by promoting action on an international level .
5. The recent communication from the Commission to the Council entitled "Chlorofluorocarbons in the Environment : Information and basis for
evaluation for the pursuit of Community policy " ( reference : C0M(81 ) 261 final ),
■ recalls these measures and includes proposals for further action.
6. The above communication was examined by the Council of Ministers for Environment at its meeting on 11 June 1981, where it was decided, inter alia, to invite the Commission to submit to the Council as soon as possible a proposal for a Council decision authorising the Commission to participate
on behalf of the Community in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer.
The present proposal is in' response to that invitation.
7. In view of the above mentioned considerations therefore, and in order
to ensure the participation of the Community as such in the negotiations
for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer,
the Commission hereby recommends that the Council should as soon as possible:
- adopt the decision for which a proposal is annexed authorising the Commission to participate on behalf of the Community in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer
 Recommendation for a Council decision authorising the Commission to '.■-•-•i?
participate on behalf of the Community in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community , .
Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission,
: Whereas the aim of the Community environment policy as stated in
I the Declaration of the Council of the European Communities and of
' the representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting
in the Council of 22 November 1973 on the programme of action of the European Communities on the environment1 ) as supplemented by . the Resolution of the Council of the European Communities and of the representatives
of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the Council of
17 May 1977 on the continuation arid implementation of an European
2) Community policy and action programme on the environment , namely
the improvement of the quality and setting of life, of the surroundings and living conditions of the peoples of the Community, implies, in particular , preventing , reducing and, as far as possible , eliminating , pollution and nuisances as well as seeking common solutions to environmental problems with States outside the Community, particularly in international organisations ;
Whereas in accordance with this policy the Community has already adopted measures concerning chlorof luorocarbons in the environment , and pursued actions on an . international level , particularly in the framework of
the United Nations Environment Programme ;
Whereas the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme, at its ninth session, decided to initiate work aimed at the elaboration of a global framework Convention for the protection of
the ozone layer ;
 Whereas in view of the above-mentioned considerations, it -is necessary »
for the Community to participate in the negotiations for a global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer;
The Commission is hereby authorised to participate in the negotiations fora global framework Convention on the protection of the ozone layer.
The Commissionshall conduct these negotiations in consultation with
representatives of the Member States and in accordance with the annexed directives .
 Directives for the negotiations
The negotiations should aim towards the elaboration of a global framework Convention, which would cover monitoring, scientific research and the development of best available and economically feasible technologies to limit and gradually reduce emissions of ozone-depleting substances, as well as the development of appropriate strategies and policies, in consistency with policies being developed in the Community.
The negotiations should also aim at ensuring that appropriate provisions
enabling the Community to become a Contracting Party be contained in the Convention .
