In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(Communication> from Mr Haferkamp)
1. A Long-standing difference in approach between the US and the
Commui^^ over East-West economic relations has in recent months culminat&i in the gas pipeline dispute. During the past few days
the US ha^fcaken the initiative of drafting the so-called "Shultz-non- paper " ( Ann««k,1 ) which seeks to define a common Western strategy vis - a- vis the East . Tne Ambassadors of the seven Summit partners , plus the Presidency and the Commission, met in Washington on 22 October to examine this paper, and on 28 October the dialogue will continue.
2. Asa number of trfSttopics dealt with in the paper concern Community competences, an agreed^irammunity position should be put forward at the discussion on 28 Octoberf&Moreover, before examining in detail the "Shultz non-paper" we need to defirfKj^n general terms the Community's own philosophy of East-West economic relations and the aims which we should pursue in this dialogue. The purpose of the present paper therefore is to
- lay down 'certain principles which reflect t ^ Coirmunity 's specific position in East-Wl^: economic relations (section IV);
- examine what specific themes ^jStoild be covered in the US-EC dialogue ( section V);
- propose comments on certain parts oPthe Shultz non-paper ( section VI ).
1. The traditional Community attitude has been to favourcfeast-West %st-
cooperation both on economic grounds (complementarity of Elase&pcxn and Western European economies) and political (we hoped that coop«^tion would moderate Eastern political attitudes). Indeed the heyday of detente - the mid 1970s - was also the high point of East-West trade. At that time, we were prepared to make " good-will " concessions which were not always econo­ mically justified (e.g. admission of Romania to the GSP; accession of Eastern countries to GATT).
2. Since then the climate of East-West relations has altered for the worse-J^ because of both political (Afghanistan and Poland) and economic factors
( Eastern indebtedness and the Western recession ). In particular , US attitudes
1. Thevgsrsailies Summit of 6 June agreed on a "prudent and diversi­
fied" attituc^to the USSR and Eastern Europe compatible with our political and security inter^jfts; specifically , it called for improvements in the COCOM system,the exchange of information in the OECD on all aspects of East-West economic relations , and prudence in financial relations , especially credits .
2. The La Sapiniere>seeting of 3 October added a number of basic considerations of East-Wra^ economic policy :
- not to provide the<gfcBt with technology which can enhance its military potential ; ^
- not to contribute to Soviet strategic advantage : i.e. increasing our own vulnerability or lessening theirs ;
- not to subsidize the Soviet ec
have changed radically under President REAGAN/ leading to the imposition of sanctions on Poland and the USSR and the gas pipeline dispute.
3 . The Community 's economic situation differs from that of the US (East-West trade is much more important for us; ne buy a lot more from
the East; and we have a substantial trade deficit, due largely to energy
and raw material imports from the USSR) v But primarily political factors -
^ events in Poland and pressure from the US - have anyway imposed a rethinking of our relations with the East .
Finally the Nyborg meeting of 17 Octobw*approved the opening as
soon as possible of exploratory talks accordincf^fea the Summit formula, to be prepared under normal Community procedure for matters of our competence. The Community's object in this dialogue will be twofold :
to define, as the US wish, a global strategy which will place East-
West economic relations in the perspective of pc^fcjtical and security relations ; ^
to defuse the gas pipeline dispute : there are indicaf^ps that the US might lift the sanctions against European firms if "a^rernative
methods can be found ".
Trade with East European countries is more important for the fy*
Community than for the U.S. (see Annex 2). This is the result of historical, %
geographical and political factors. As a result of the period of detente in the 1970's there was an increase not only in trade but also in general economic cooperation between the Community and the East. At that time we were prepared to " invest " in the development of the Eastern economies . If now a shift in
 the basic line is needed a detailed study taking into account specific Western European interests will be necessary .
2. Nevertheless, apart from the agreed Western principles (above) there are some basic considerations which reflect the Community's specific position and on, which we can hope to get our Western partners' agreement, for example :
- We are not interested in "economic warfare" or•in seeking to end East-West trade; and the US have said this is not their aim; for one thing, we risk driving the Eastern countries closer together - a tendency which already exists because of the USSR's increased economic weight and the others' debt
- There<^ certainly a role for East-West trade if it is based on normal
We must differentiate between the various Eastern countries ; therefore , in some cases we should decide to be more restrictive, in others perhaps to seek
to improve our relations. There are a variety of ecojtomic and political reasons for this, such as differences in indebtednessS&oenness of markets
and the levels of development . V
Specific items which the US have raised or are likely to raise :
commertH^ conditions; and the Community is willing to engage in such commerci^^elations with the East. This implies that in the agricultural sector, ex^v'ts should not take place at more favourable terms than world
market conditions ; and for export credits , this means a gradual elimination of subsidy elements which are now in force, and which have recently been substantially reduced. The concept of not giving special advantages to the East ("no subsidies'JJvshould also apply to other kinds of unilateral trade concessions, particuftjfely because it is difficult to obtain effective re­ ciprocity .
- Similarly, "dependence" is^Ot just a question of European dependence on Soviet gas, but also of other forms of mutual dependence on particular trade flows, financing arrangements etc.; all forms of trade , but especially large- scale and long-term ones , bring with them an element of interdependence .
- Energy dependence. The Community is THUvily dependent on supplies from third countries particularly in the oil and sector. For its own security of supply, the Community has to seek diversification of its (sources. The Soviet Union and the Eastern European countries Jtwjld not be excluded from supplying the Community as long as this does not creat^dangerous dependence.
- High technology : this aspect is of utmost importance. It comprises
two groups of products. First, strategic goods and technology of militafo significance and second, the export of advanced non-military technology ^ which could enhance Soviet industrial capacity. Militarily relevant technology is a matter for COCOM and not for the Community, but the US
are anxious for their partners also to draw up a list of non-strategic
 high-technology goods, such as is contained in the US Foreign Policy List , the exports of which might be restricted. This is a matter of Community competence .
Export credits : we should be able to go some way to meet the Americans
by proposing stricter conditions for the Soviet Union : higher down- payments and a possible shortening of credit terms . (The US are -concerned that the Franco-Soviet agreement will prevent us from taking action.)
Capital flows : The US will wish the member States to maintain their refusal to reschedule Polish official debts." They are also anxious to
institute a monitoring system on East-West flows of capital, in the OECD or elsewhere .
Energy/a The US are likely to raise the problems of dependency; of possible alternative sources; of Soviet earnings from energy exports; and of possible
Soviet mlfwpulation of the oi I and gas markets . We agre® with the idea of carrying ou&« study under the auspices of the OECD of projected European
energy requirements over the next decade and beyond and the possible means of meeting those requirements .
Trade with Poland : the US will want our support in GATT for their decision
to withdraw MFN. Thedjjyborg meeting has decided that we cannot follow their example; but as an alte^fr^tive we could propose freezing our quotas for 1983 at their 1982 level . We^^o intend to continue our humanitarian aid .
Trade with USSR : the US hop« we will intensify our measures against the Soviet Union. We could envisage extending our March import measures into 1983, and at the same time freeze our 1983 quotas at the 1982 level.
The gas pipeline : even if the US decMe to lift their sanctions against
our firms, as a result of or in the ho|»£pf a successful dialogue, they will want Western Governments to refuse the sefewid stage of the pipeline.
There are other themes which we ourselves^Tmght usefully propose :
agriculture : we should examine the economic significance for the Soviet
Union of her agricultural imports and how best to take advantage of the strong demand which characterises the Soviet market .
transport and services : this is a field in which effecti^^reciprocity with the East is lacking, and where bilateral attempts at solutiTMk have been in­ effective .
Eastern participation in international economic organisations and the world trading system (GATT, IMF, etc.) : incorporation of Eastern countries in such bodies has not brought all the advantage ws hoped for.
Eastern trade practices : as a result of their indebtedness, such probl
as Eastern import restraints, dumping, compensation trading, and competitio^j, on third markets have intensified; we should examine together both those practices and our own defence mechanisms.
 - Extension of the dialogue : we should discuss with our partners how the dialogue can best be extended to other Western countries, in the OECD or other fora .
1. In the light of the guidelines of Community policy set out in
section IV, the Commission proposes to the Council the following comments
on the "Shultz non-paper", some of which have already been made by
Smember State representatives on 22 October (references are to the text at Annex 1).
• t'ie concept of subsidising the Soviet economy should Be defined or replaced by the idea that we should not
give special advantages to the East and that we should 'base our relations on the principle of effective reciprocity.
~ 3rd_indent : the^encept of "strategic" advantage also needs closer definition same applies to the use of this word in
para 3, 2nd indent, ^jjj^in section 3, para (d) ). Add as supplementary cr^eria the following ideas :
- We are not interested in "economic warfare" or in seeking to end East-West trade ;
- we are willing to continue East-W^fe^trade on normal commercial conditions ; fyu
- we should tailor our economic relations uzth East European countries
to the specific situation of each of them?&This takes up the i.dea
at the end of the following para . of the US text , which is an important one ).
Paragraph 3 (list of "areas")
~ 2nd_i^ndent : The inclusion of oil and gas equipmenl^puld appear to prejudge the result of the examination, and raiseS&he question
whether these areas are really appropriate examples of^wfcjh technology.
~ 2£d_inden£ : place "trade in agriculture and foodstuffs" separate third indent and add : "agricultural exports diould not takeplace on more favourable terms than world market conditions; we should examine
how best to take advantage of strong Soviet market demand."
- add as £th_i.nden£ : " - other trade problems, including Eastern traot^ practices, Western defence mechanisms and Eastern participation in GATO>
and IMF".
- 3rd sentence : last words "and fees" is questionable because administrative
and financial practices in our various countries differ considerably, for historic reasons .
- 3rd sentence : the beginning phrase "Having in mind the objective of not subsidising the Soviet economy" could be omitted - see remark on " subsidising " in Section 2 paragraph 1 .
In the view of the Commission this paragraph, as against paragraph (a) relates to' matters of Community competence. We should therefore propose several amendments as follows :
- First sentence to read "to examine immediately whether their interests require ... "( not just security interests ).
- " strategically " : see remark on , Section 2 para 1,3rd indent .
- lea\4^jftut the reference to oil and gas technology, for the reasons explai1»d above.
- replace IaQy sentence by "and how such controls should be implemented."
1. Our Governments recognise the necessity of conducting their relations
^J^th the USSR on the basis of a global and comprehensive policy designed to s^rve our own fundamental security interests. They are particularly conscious
of the need for a common approach in the economic field, where actions must be
coordinate^ within the framework of their global strategy. They are resolved together t<$£ake the necessary steps to remove differences and to ensure that
future decisi^^by their governments on these issues are taken on the basis of an analysis o^the East-West relationship as a whole, with due regard for
their respective interests and in a spirit of mutual trust and confidence.
2. They agree that tK^following criteria should govern the economic dealings of their countries riSfeW) the Soviet Union and Eastern European
- That they will not undertake trade arrangements which have the effect of contributing to the military capacity, actual or potential, of the USSR;
- That it is not in their interest to conductf^frrade with the USSR which has %
>54» the effect of subsidising the Soviet economy.
- That they will take no steps that contribute to the strategic advantage of , the Soviet Union .
They agree to examine thoroughly how to apply these cJ^eria, taking into account the various economic and political problems involvMfcvwith the
view to agreeing on a common line of action. They will pay due attajjf-ion in the course of this work to the question of how best to tailor their economic
relations with Eastern European countries to the specific situation of each of
This overall analysis will touch in particular on the following areas :
- Strategic goods and technology of military significance (COCOM)
- High technology of strategic importance including oil and gas equipment - Other trade, including agriculture and foodstuffs
 In the field of energy, the European Governments, as they are heavily dependent on imports of energy, will initiate a study of projected European energy requirements over the next decade and beyond and possible means of meeting those requirements. The United States will participate in this study,
feu It will be prepared under the auspices of the OECD.
3 . As an immediate decision and following decisions already made , they have
agreed on the following : ,
(a) Th^jfc^i 11 work together within the framework of the Coordinating Committee
(COCOM) to pr^|pt the contemporary security interests of the alliance. The list of strategic iteri^would be evaluated and, if necessary, adjusted. This objective
will be pursued at the COCOM review meeting beginning October A in Paris. They further agreee to take the necessary measures to strengthen the effectiveness and responsiveness of COCd&fend to enhance their national mechanism as necessary to enforce COCOM decisions . '32k
(b) It was agreed at Versailles that the development of economic and financial relations with the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe would be subject to periodic ex-post review. The Allies are agreed on tja® need to establish without delay the
necessary mechanism for this purpose. Having^n mind the objective of not sub­ sidizing the Soviet economy, allied Governmental I also establish the means
to harmonise national policies with respect to th^jKtension of credits,, covering interest rates, maturities, down payments, and fees.
(c> During the course of the study of energy, allied Goi^^nments will
exercise restraint with regard to entering into any new contra^^ with the Soviet Union for the purchase of natural gas. fys*
(d) Allied Governments agree to examine immediately whether their
security interests require controls on the export to the Soviet Union and ■ Eastern Europe of strategically significant advanced technology and equipment$>*,
to be jointly determined, but including technology with direct application to the oil and gas sector. Actions would be agreed upon and implemented within a framework associated with COCOM.
East-West trade relations for the Community are more* important than for the US or Japan. Trade with the East European countries , which accounts ( in 1981 ) for 7 % of the Community 's foreign trade in terms of both imports and exports, represents only
G,6 X of US imports and 1,9 % of US exports, arid 1,6 X and 2,6 % respectively for Japan*
In absolute terms. Community exports to Eastern European
counto^es were valued at 19,6 billion USD in 1981, compared to 4,3 billiorragD for the US and 4 billion USD for Japan*
%v^uthermore, unlike the US and Japan, we have a negative trade balance with^he Eastern CMEA countries as a whole (in 1981 we had a
deficit of 5,7 billion USD with the USSR and a surplus of only 1 billion USD with the other six Eastern countries).
Our trada^ith the USSR is characterised by the fact that today still about 77 our exports are manufactured goods, whereas
these products account f^Konly about 20 % of US exports to the Soviet Union* But it should be rofced that although manufactured goods are still the mainstay of our exports^the Soviet Union is importing increasing quantities of foodstuffs from the Community* Community sales of agri­ cultural products to the USSR now exceed those of the USA (1,8 billion USD as against 1,6 billion USD in 1981)*
