In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(08.10 ex D, 08.12 ex B), lumache (16.05 ex B).
Other industrial products
Other industrial products (in Annex A -
Reg. 3322/SQ) Tobacco other Virginia type
Jute and coir products
Other industrial S^total
Other
m quantity (d)""
1) MFA and non-MFA textiles allocated ar-.ong Member States (Ann.Aand C - Reg 3320/80) d) These quotas and ceilings are expressed in metric tonnes
3) Tariff quotas for COCCJ better, soluble coffee, pineapples in slices and
other than in slices, totacco of the Virginia type
J) N'FA and non-MFA textiles n3t allocated among Member states Arm. B and D - Reg. 332C/';C)
* Utilization of ite-. 44.1s : 93.1 X
In the GSP-regulation for agricultural products :
- Article 1, paragraph 3, first section has to be changed as follows :
"3. The products listed in Annex C originating in the countries listed in Annex D shall be imported into the Community free of customs duties. The additional duties as indicated "vc"
for the "variable component", "ads" or "adf" for the additio- . nal duties for sugar or flour foreseen in the general customs tariff for these products remain applicable."
- The existing Annex C becomes Annex D
- In the existing Annex A the products only provided for the LLDC 's and the footnotes belonging to' these products have to be cancelled.
- In the existing Annex B the LLDC's have to be cancelled.
20 ( excluding the 20.07 Ala)..
following
article 13, par. 3; article 18,'par. 1, 3rd section and article 23, par . 1 , 3rd section have to be cancelled . .
change GSP description from ex c) other
t0 c) other
unrooted cuttings and slips other than of vine
other live plants, excluding fruit and forest trees etc.
- not further prepared than dried –
Parts of plants, fresh
Chocolate and Chocolate goods
Fruit otherwise prepared/preserved. . .mandarins
to align with 06.04 Β II AN> III - -dried flcwer 3 etc. , which · ire difficult
aa) with an od'.ied sugar content exceeding 30 X by we'i-jht
bb) with εη o:!:!;-d sugar content of 30 % or Less
not co.-.ioining
. added sugar'
Cigars and cigarillos
Smoking tobacco
:Horse radish, fresh or chilled Okra (...), frozen
MFN or autcno- : Proposed GSP Total Extra mous rate 1982 ! rcte 1983 EC imports
Rose-hips fruit, cooked or uncooked, frozen without the addition of. sugar
preserved is already included duty free)
*) product already subject to temporary autonomous tariff suspension
( in ECU ) ( a )
( in ECU ) ( a )
TUNNELLAIt ) ( 7 )
TONNELLAIt )
tappeti , anche
) ( in JONNILLAIt )
• 806 Salomone, isole
.sc »2 Oceania austr.iliana ( isola Christmas . isole C'ocos ( Keeling ), isole Heard e McDonald , isola Norfolk )
Clupeiformi sp. p. in salamoia
– Clupeiformi sp. p. in salamoia
I. in tavolette , cubi o
CÀfiJTCtO it TABACCHI
footwear ( IT Textiles ( 1 ) Other industrial
Reg . Tobacco other Virginia
Other industrial products (in Annex A -
Jute and coir products
Other industrial sub-total^
TOTAL Other agricultural
i) MFA and non-MFA textiles allocated among Member States (Ann.Aand C - Reg 3320/80) «.') These quotas and ceilings are expressed in metric tonnes
* Utilization of ite . 44.15 (a) imn quanttiîty
other than in slices, tctjcco of the Virginia type
j) kfa and non-M^A textiles not allocated among Member states
lAnn. B and D - Reg. JiiC/cG)
n the GSR-regulation for agricultural products : »
Article 1, paragraph 3, first section has to be changed as follows :
"3. The products listed in Annex C originating in the countries listed in Annex D shall be imported into the Community free of customs duties . The additional duties as indicated "vc "
for the "variable component", "ads" or "adf" for the additio- . nal duties for sugar o7 flour foreseen in the general customs tariff for these products remain applicable ."
The existing Annex C becomes Annex D
In the existing Annex A the products only provided for the LLDC s and
the footnotes belonging to' these products have to be cancelled .
the existing
have
be cancelled .
03.02 D and E 03.05 F
ex 03.03 F II - passion 03.09 untiI. 03.13 Chaptιîr 09
11.0'. A and Β 11.05
( excluding the following 20.07AIa) .
article 13, par. 3; article 18, par. 1, 3rd section and article 23 par. 1, 3rd section have to be cancelled. .
-from
ex c) other
other
unrooted cuttings and slips other than of vine
other live plants, excluding fruit and forest trees etc.
- not further prepared than dried
Parts of
Chocolate and Chocolate goods
Fruit otherwise prepared / preserved . . . mandarins
added sugar
to align with 06.04 Β II Af, >
-dried flcwer 3 etc. , which ire difficult
ao) with on o-Jded sugar content exceeding 30 X by i.'eijMt
bb) with zr. cc'Jc-d sugar content of 30 X or less by uei j!'.t
cc) not cor.;fining added sugar' Cigarettes
Cigars and cisarUlos Smoking tobacco
: MFN or autono- 'Proposed GSP Total Extra : mous rate 1982 ! rcte 1933 EC impos'ts
Okra (...), frozen
preserved is already include-d duty free)
Rose-hips fruit, cooked or uncooked, frozen without the addition of. sugsr
■) product already subject to temporary autonomous tariff suspension
Methanol (methylalcohol)
B. ander
b) ander
b) ander
b) ander
2. ander
2 . ander
B, andere
kwasten
Houtwol ; houtmeel
Andere houtwaren
C. ander
C. ander
N. Thorium :
b) ander (EURATOM) O. Zirkonium :
Q. Gallium, indium en thalïium: 11. bewerkt
467 St. Vincent 492 Suriname 393 Swaziland 608 Syrië
(in ton (in ton ) (5) (6) (7
(in ton (in ton ) » (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
) (in ton ) <7Î _
> (in ton (7)
) (in ton ) (7)
boorden , fronten
Cin ton ) Cin ton ) (S) (6) (7)
Bad- of frotteerstof (lus-
gens – post 59.08, 59.1 1 of 59. 12
(in ton ) (7)
i(in ton CHINA ! 5,
boorden , fronten
(in ton
) (in ton )
(in ton ) (in ton ) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (3) (4) (S) (6) (7)
(in ton (5) (6)
) (in ton ) (7)
(in ton (6)
) (in ton ) (7)
(in ton (6)
) (in ton ) (7)
(in ton (4) (5) (6) (7)
i(in ton
(in ton ) (in ton ) (4) (5) (6) (7)
Cin ton ) (in ton ) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(bad- of frotteerstof in-
(in ton ) (in ton ) (4) (5) (6) (7)
of frot-
(in ton (6)
) (in ton ) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (4) (5) (6) (7)
twiste of tot op 250 toe-
(in ton (6)
) (in ton (7)
Cin ton ) (in ton ) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton (6)
) (in ton ) (7)
(in ton ) ton ) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton (6)
) (in ton ) (7)
(in ton
(in ton )
(in ton (6)
) (in ton ) (7)
Sumak -, Karamaniestof en
j(in ton
(in ton )_ (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton
(in ton )
(in ton ) (in ton (4) (5) (6) (7)
[in ton (6)
) [in ton ) (7)
(in ton
(in ton ) (in ton (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (6) (7)
brei- of haakwerk. GUATEMALA -
uit twee of drie delen
(in ton
(in ton )
(in ton
) (in ton ) (7)
(in ton (6)
) (in ton ) (7)
l(in ton in ton ) (i) (2) (3) (4 (5) (6) (7)
(in ton
) (in ton (7)
(in ton
) (in ton ) ( 7 )
(in ton
) (in ton )
!(in ton
(in ton 11
(in ton
) (in ton )
(in ton (5) (6)
) (in ton (7)
(in ton
) (in ton
(in ton (in ton (5) (6) (7)
Cin ton ) Cin ton (4) (5) (6) (7)
l(in ton (6)
(in ton ) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton (3) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton ) (in ton ) (4) (5) (6) (7)
(in ton (6)
) (in ton > (7)
(in ton (6)
) (in ton ) (7)
("in ton
) (in ton )
492 Suriname 393 Swaziland 608 Syrië
b) ander
B. ander
ex B. andere :
Mierikswortel of peperwortel (Cochlearia armoracia)
III . Nherikwortel of peperwortel ( Cochlearia Armoracia )
Steenfruit, vers: E. ander
E. Papaja's ex G. ander:
Thee :
b ) andere II . andere :
b) ander:
– ander
A. ruw wolvet of wolzweet B. ander
B. Chinese houtolie, andere houtolie, tungolie en oïticicaolie; Myricawas en Japanwas
C. Ricinusolie : II. andere
D. andere oliën :
been-
ex bb) andere:
C. witte chocolade
O ander
D. ander
– andere andere :
III. andere: ex a)
twee liter of minder :
680 Thailand 280 Togo
A. Uien . . Ol.ow B. andere ;
fixing the Community's scheme of generalized tariff prefe­ rences for the period 1983 to 1985 and opening the scheme applicable in 1983
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
fixing the Community's scheme of generalized tariff prefe­ rences for the period 1983 to 1985 and opening the scheme applicable in 1983
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
 Introduction and Summary
The basic framework for the application of the EC's Scheme of Generali Preferences ~ product coverage, tariff treatment - having been defined for the quinquennium 1981-85 by the Council in December 1980 when it agreed on the principle of renewing the EC's scheme for a second decade, the annual exercise of review-ing and adapting the scheme should be carried out within fairly settled parameters. With the experience, moreover, of a full year's operation of this new scheme for industrial products the Commission is now able to put forward proposals precisely tailored to the situation of the individual products. However, the Commission recognizes that unfortunately in a number of important sectors the scope for improvements is very limited.
For textiles the Commission considers that in general a 5 % improvement in both allocated and non-allocated ceilings, which have been calculated on the basis of a 1977 reference should now be brought in, save for certain dominant suppliers and state trading countries, and a recalculation of the "basket exit" figures together with a simplification of the administrative machinery. For non-MFA products the Commission proposes that following the success of the new control system for industrial products, there should be
a similar change to individual country ceilings from the system hitherto applied of global ceilings.
Finally for agricultural products the major thrust of the Commission's
proposals is the extension to Least Developed Countries of duty-free treat­
ment on all dutiable products, not further protected by levies or similar devices. For other beneficiaries the Commission proposes improvements in-
preference margins on 18 products already included and the inclusion of 9 entirely new products.
In drawing up its proposals for the 1983 GSP scheme/ the Commission has taken particular note of
- the Opinion of the European Parliament on the Commission's proposals for the 1982 GSP scheme1), which stressed the fact that Least Developed Countries benefit mostly from GSP concessions in the agricultural sector and therefore called on the Commission to adjust the GSP in such a way as to permit the poorest developing countries to sell more agricultural and processed agricultural products;
- the agreed declaration written into the Council's Minutes when the 1982 GSP scheme was approved, which called on it so submit proposals this year for sub­ stantial additional advantages for the group of Least Developed Countries
but taking into account the special sensitivity of individual products for certain Member States .
The Commission is accordingly proposing a potentially important extension
of the EC's offer to those Least Developed Countries, whose only possibility
of preferential access is through the GSP by the inclusion of all those dutiable products in CCT Chapters 1 - 24 on which ACP suppliers already receive preference, which are not further protected by a levy or similar device.
However it has to be accepted that the scope for additional concessions for the generality of GSP beneficiary countries, the impact of which could be substantial , is much more limited . The Commission can only put forward proposals within comparatively restricted parameters, given the constraints imposed by the necessity not to undermine the value of the preferential access accorded to certain groups of developing countries.
 Nevertheless after due consideration of all these factors the Commission is proposing
- improvements in preferential margins on 18 products already included in the EC'
GSP including certain unrooted cuttings (06.02 A II), other live plants etc. (06.03 ex B) and parts of flowers,, fresh (06.04 B I );
mangoes (08.01 H), bay leaves (09.10 B), oleic acid (15.10 B), chocolate and chocolate goods (18.06 C), pineapple juices (20.07 B II a (4), B (5)
and cigarettes (24.02 A), cigars and cigarillos (24.02 B) and smoking tobacco (24.02 c);
- the inclusion of 9 new products among which are horse radish-fresh
or chilled (07.01 6 III), okra-frozen or dried (07.02 ex B, 07.04 ex B);
dried sweet peppers(07.04 ex B 1^ dates - fresh, dried or frozen (08.01; ex 08.10),
rose-hips fruits cooked or uncooked, frozen or dried (08.10 EX D, 08.12 ex B), snai Is 06.05 ex B).
The Commission also believes that the GSP offer in its entirety should be extended to the People's Republic of China, as it had already proposed last year.
The Commission has also come to the conclusion that a number of aspects of the tariff provisions covering the import of unmanufactured tobacco require amendment. These questions, however, cover wider issues than merely GSP treatment, and the Commission believes that they will therefore require further detailed study before the necessary proposals for a comprehensive solution can be put forward.
Lastly the Commission has re-examined the patterns of trade in the 5 agricul­ tural products subject to quotas in the GSP - Cocoa butter; soluble coffee; canned pineapples in slices; canned pineapples in cubes, Virginia-type un­ manufactured tobacco. It is now undeniable that over the last 5 years the effective trade flows have in some instances come to diverge so significantly from the patterns suggested in the established distribution keys among Member States for these quotas, that a redistribution is required. The Commission
is accordingly putting forward proposals aimed at re-establishing realistic quota shares .
Details of all these proposals are given in ANNEX I.
The Commission has now gained a full year's experience of operating the new machinery for the control of preferential imports of sensitive industrial
products: under this the former system of global controls of all suppliers
has been replaced by a more flexible technique of control at the level of individual supplier countries. It has received confirmation that the objectives which
this new machinery of differentiation in the allocation of benefits and simplification of administration was designed to achieve, are being fulfilled. The intention of relating the benefits offered through the GSP more accurate­ ly to the real needs and capabilities of individual countries is being
attained and in particular certain of the previously less competitive suppliers are now beginning to make much more effective use of the improved opportunities created, having been given greater confidence and security by the individuali­ zation of preferential shares. This process will, however, need further time to develop .
The Commission believes that the experience has also shown that the list of Sensitive products first established for the 1981 GSP scheme remains
largely valid. The overall economic situation in the EC remains far from
healthy and there are very marked differences between sectors and industries
in business expectations and confidence . N evertheless the Commission believes ..that
the EC has a duty to try to help developing countries overcome the international economic crisis which is hurting many of them, particularly the poorest and Least Developed, even more severely than EC Member States. It therefore proposes
that some further liberalization of the list of sensitive products should be attempted,and that 8 items should be transferred to the Non-Sensitive List in
1983 . For two other products , however - other fertilizers CCCT 31.05 ) and foot­ wear with outer soles of other materials (CCT 64.04) - there has been such a marked deterioration in the particular industries * position , compounded by significant imports from developing countries, that the Commission considers that it
will be necessary to control preferential imports much more closely and that the items concerned must henceforth figure on the Sensitive List,- with the major suppliers subject to individual country quotas.
 An in-depth review of this year's list of Sensitive products has also shown , that preferential imports have increased so substantially from certain suppliers that it will be necessary to introduce an additional 11 individual country quotas to control these imports. On the other hand/ GSP imports of 8 other products have proved to be below expectations and while imports of these products still need to be effectively monitored, 8 individual country quotas can be eliminated and replaced in 1982 by ceilings. This kind of movement
in both directions is precisely the kind of annual adaptation which the Commission had foreseen as likely and desirable when the new machinery was first introduced.
The Commission wishes nevertheless to emphasize that where new limitations
on preferential entry are being proposed, the recommendation to impose individual country quotas or ceilings must result from a demonstration not merely that the EC industry concerned finds itself in difficulties, but
equally that there are significant competitive imports coming in from GSP beneficiary countries. Although there are obviously very considerable variations from sector to sector and from product to product, yet as the EC's own import statistics have repeatedly shown, imports under GSP still often represent only
a small or even negligible proportion of total imports, and indeed there remain many products which these countries have hardly begun to export at all.
As a complement to the review of the composition of the Lists of controlled and of Non-Sensitive products, the Commission has also naturally considered how far the values of the individual country quotas and ceilings might be improved. With more detailed information available to it than last year about the operation of the new machinery for GSP imports of industrial products, the Commission is not proposing a uniform across-the-board rate of increase but increases related directly to the situation on each individual product.
- For those products where individual country quotas are to be applied, the Commission's proposals are that on about half of them the situation both of the industry concerned and in relation to competitive imports from GSP
suppliers is still so unhealthy - notably in the steel, footwear and leather,
and certain sectors of the chemical industries - that no increases can be recommended; for the other items, at least a 5 % increase could be supported, and in a few cases 10% or even 15 %.
The Commission reserves the possibility to reexamine the position in the context of developments in the steel industry.
 - The pressure from Less competitive suppliers, imports from whom are controlled by the more flexible technique of individualized ceilings being usually less, increases in the value of these ceilings of between 5 % and 15 % have usually been proposed, although again for 15 out of the 124 products no increase can be envi saged .
- However, for all Non-Sensitive products the Commission feels able to propose a 15 % general increase .
Finally, the Commission has once again carefully reviewed - product by product - the special regimes which are still being applied to a limited extent towards China and Romania.The Commission believes that by judicious use of the machinery of individualized country quotas and ceilings, some further extension of product coverage in favour of these two countries could be accepted without risk, and accordingly is proposing the inclusion of Romania for an additional 7 products on List A and 6 products on List B and China for 3 products on List A.
(The exclusions would thereby be reduced to about 50.products in hoth lists in the case of Romania and 12 products in the case of China).
a ) Products covered by the Wulti fibre Agreement
At the time when the EC's Council of Ministers was required to approve
the 1982 GSP scheme the outcome of the negotiations on the renewal of the
Multifibre Agreement was not yet known and the Council, therefore, decided to repeat its 1981 offer - expressed in tonnes, pairs or pieces - unaltered for a second
year. The Multifibre Agreement itself has now been extended for a further period
of 5 years, although the EC's adherence to it is conditional upon the satis­
factory conclusion of bilateral self-restraint agreements or similar under­
takings with all the significant supplying countries. As far as preferential
imports from developing countries are concerned, eligibility for GSP benefit
on products covered by the MFA remains conditional upon the exporting country
having given the EC that kind of assurance, and in this context discussions
are currently taking place which it is hoped will lead to the inclusion of
Bolivia and Ecuador among the list of eligible countries in 1983.
 In the meantime, however, while the basic framework of the EC's GSP scheme for textiles will continue to remain that established in 1980, the Commission considers that certain adjustments and improvements are now timely, largely because the base year in calculating the offer was imports in 1977..
- In line with the approach adopted in the bilateral negotiations under the MFA the Commission therefore proposes that on products covered by the MFA the GSP offer should be increased by 5 % - save for imports from "dominant suppliers", i.e. South Korea, Hong Kong and Macao and from the two state trading countries - Romania and China, for whom the 1981 offer will be maintained unaltered (apart from some minor rounding up of figures).
- There is also to be a re-evaluation of the volumes subject to the "basket exit " procedure : as a general rule the GSP "basket exit " ratio is fixed at 5 % of the MFA threshold level. The effect of this recalculation varies
according to the sensitivity of the product but in principle is intended to fall in the range of an increase of between 5 % and 25 %, using 1980 deliveries as the reference base. It should also be noted that this re-evaluation of the"basket exit" volumes is to apply equally to the 5 countries for whom the GSP offer is otherwise to be retained at its 1982
The outcome of the renegotiation of the MFA also allows a parallel simplification to be applied in the control and management of the GSP arrangements.
Thus the reorganization of categories now accepted in the MFA cain be transposed to the GSP and the previous different 5 groups of products can be reduced to 3 groups. Moreover, the former rigid distinction in
the control of imports between products subject to ceilings allocated among Member States (ANNEX A) and products subject to ceilings not thus allocated
(ANNEX B) can be abandoned and the two annexes merged. All the same, where ceilings on individual products reflect significant imports from beneficiary countries, it will still be necessary to allocate them among Member States.
It is on products where imports are slight or as yet only potential, i.e. the "basket exit" situation, that the substantial lightening of administrative burden on customs officials of giving up this allocation of ceilings can be carried out . v
All these proposals are nevertheless put forward subject to the reservation that they may require modification in the light of the development of the bilateral negotiations with the individual exporting countries .
In the light of the success of the new system of individualized country quotas or cei lings , which has been introduced for sensitive industrial products other than textiles, the Commission has concluded that the same technique of control of preferential imports ought now to be applied to textile products
not covered by the Multifibre Agreement. Accordingly it is proposed that the global ceilings covering imports from all sources should give way to individual ceilings, the value of which, moreover, will be calculated by reference to total imports of the product in question in an up-dated reference year - 1980 instead of 1977.- The former maximum country amounts of 50 % or 30 % - as the case may
be - will be converted into individual country ceilings, calculated against
the same percentage of 56.1 % of actual total . imports of each product in the
new reference year. However while in general these ceilings will be increased
by 5 % compared with the equivalent butoir in 1982, the maximum increase can
not normally exceed 25 %.
A measure of simplification in the control and management of these individualized ceilings, similar to that proposed for MFA products is also envisaged. Thus, the present categories in ANNEX C and D will be merged, but allocated ceilings will be retained on products originating from countries
which reached the butoir in previous years or are deemed significant suppliers. For all other suppliers, imports will be controlled on the basis of non-allocated ceilings .
c ) Jute and Coir products
The Commission proposes that the 1982 arrangements should be renewed unchanged for a further year in favour of the present beneficiaries.
Management and Administration of the GSP
In 1980 and 1981 the Commission put forward proposals to give a more "communautaire" nature to the administration of the GSP by placing it in a more appropriate management framework. However, in spite of lengthy discussion of these ideas in the Council no concrete results emerged.
For 1983, solelyyin order to facilitate the adoption of its proposals,
the Commission has omitted any mention of a "Generalized Preferences Committee"; however it still regards the ideas which it has put forward
in this context as the most satisfactory solution to the management problem, and consequently reserves the right to come back to them in future preference exercises .
In the field of tariff quotas the Commission has, as in previous years, omitted both the limitation of Member States* obligation to draw on the reserve (to 40 % of their initial quota-share) and the special conversion rate of the ECU for certain products formerly under global tariff quotas . It considers these two elements to be incompatible with the principles
of the customs union .
An analysis of the use made of the tariff quotas has shown that they are
not uniformly exhausted. In many cases one or two Member States have used
their quota-shares very rapidly, while in the other Member States, unused amounts remain until the end of the annual exercise. This situation is
largely due to the notional method used for allocating national quota-shares among the different Member States. The Commission^ view is that the principles generally applied in questions of allocation (statistics of previous imports and forecasts of import requirements for the period of the preferential exercise under consideration) should also be applied to GSP quotas; it intends to broach the subject shortly with Member States with a view to achieving this objective in due course. In the meantime the Commission is repeating last year's proposal concerning the possibility of making an anticipatory return to the Community reserve of the unused part
of the initial quota share in certain Member States (where this is likely
to remain unused), in order to mitigate as far as possible these difficulties.
At the request of the Commission,the Council last year considered a working document setting out ideas on how the observance of certain minimum inter­ national labour standards could be tied in with eligibility to benefit from
the EC • is scheme of generalized preferences . The Council 's view was that not merely were there major practical difficulties about putting into effect
such a proposal but that its political implications further complicated
the issue, which ought therefore to be examined in the light of decisions
being taken elsewhere in the Community and in other international organizations. The Commission now calls on the Council to resume examination of this issue.
Rules of Origin
The Commission does not at present envisage the need for any changes of
substance to the rules of origin currently applicable, which should therefore
be renewed unaltered save for those minor adaptations necessitated by the introduction of new products into the EC scheme. However, following lengthy duscussions with the other donor countries in the framework of the UNCTAD Working Group on Rules of Origin a harmonized and simplified text has been agreed for
the notes printed on the reverse side of the Certificate Form A, which will become applicable from 1 January 1983, although transitional arrangements will allow beneficiary countries for the time being to use up their stocks of the existing Form.
 Supplementary Measures
With the EC's GSP scheme operating on the basis of annually renewable schemes, there is an inevitable possibility that even if by this time, the GSP's
basic principles are beginning to be quite well understood, exporters in developing countries are not nearly so cognizant of the detailed regulations. This inadequate knowledge of the benefits available has been found to occur most frequently among poorer and Least Developed Countries and may in itself provide a partial explanation for the imbalance in the pattern of utilization of the EC's GSP, which has often been remarked upon.
The Commission therefore believes that it is essential to maintain its
activities to disseminate information about the GSP: these involve in
particular the annual programme of seminars in which the target audience is
above all the businessmen concerned on a day-to-day basis with the problems
of exporting to the EC, and the preparation and publication of a new edition of the Practical Guide to the Use of the Community's GSP, whose lucid presentation
is widely appreciated.
Other industrial products (IT Qs)
Other industrial
Tobacco other Virginia type sub-total
Jute and coir products Other industrial products
Other agricultural products
1) MFA and non-MFA textiles allocated among Member States (Ann.Aand C - Reg 3320/80) t') These Quotas and ceilings are expressed in metric tonnes
3) Tjriff quotas for cocoa butter, soluble coffee, pineapples in slices and
* Utilization of item 44.15 : 93.1 X
other than in slices, tobacco of the Virginia type
•j ) v fA and non-M^A textiles not
•Ann. 8 and D - Reg. 3320/60)
ln Quantity "
allocated
In the GSP-regulat i on • "for agricultural products : >
- Article 1, paragraph 3, first section has to be changed as follows :
"3. The products listed in Annex. C originating in the countries listed in Annex D shall be imported into the Community free of customs duties . The additional duties as indicated " vc "
for the "variable component", "ads" or "adf" for the additio- . nal duties for sugar oT flour foreseen in the general customs tariff for these products remain applicable."
- The existing Annex C becomes Annex D
- In the existing Annex A the products only provided for the LLDC's and
the footnotes belonging to these products have to be cancelled. - In the existing Annex B the LLDC's have to be cancelled.
•08.01 ... 08.02 D and E 08.05 F
11.04 A and B
20 ( excluding the fol lowing
par . 3; article 18, par . 1 , 3rd section and article 23 section have to be cancelled . ,
change GSP description from ex c) other
t0 c) other
unrooted cuttings and slips other than of vine
other live plants, excluding fruit and forest trees etc .
- not further prepared than dried –
~ cut flowers dyed, bleached, impregnated ol" otherwise prepared
Parts of plants, fresh
Chocolate and Chocolate goods
Fruit otherwise prepared/preserved...mandarins
aa ) containing added sugar bb) other
to align with| 06.04 B II Af -dried floweris etc ., which
aa) with an added sugar content exceeding 30 X
by weight
bb) with en added sugar content of 30 X or less
by wei'jht > cc) not coritaining added sugar'
Cigars and cigarillos Smoking tobacco
MFN or autono- I Proposed GSP Total Extra mous rate 1982 ! rcte 1983 EC impoFts
Okra (...), frozen
preserved is already included duty free)
Rose-hips fruit , cooked or uncooked, without the addition of. sugar
*) product aLready subject to temporary autonomous tariff suspension
afplyinQ . generalized tariff preferences .
in respect of certain industrial products originating in developing countries
Commission proposals to the Council fixing the Community's scheme of generalized tariff preferences for " • J<f
(Submitted by the Commission to the Council on .
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the Euro­ pean Economic Community, and in particular Article 1 13 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commis­ sion ('),
Having regard to the opinion of the European Par­ liament (2),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3),
Whereas, in accordance with its offer made within the context of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD), the European Economic Community opened generalized tariff preferences commencing in 1971, notably in respect of finished and semi-finished industrial products from developing countries ; whereas the initial
10-year period of application of this system of preferences expired on 31 December 1980;
Whereas, however, the positive role played by this system in improving access for developing countries to the markets of the preference-giving countries was recognized at the ninth session of the UNCTAD Special Committee on Preferences ; whereas it was there agreed that the objectives of the generalized preference scheme would not be fully achieved by the end of 1980, that consequently, it should be prolonged beyond the initial period and that an overall review of the system should take place in 1990;
Whereas, therefore, the Community has decided to apply generalized tariff preferences, in the context of the conclusions agreed in UNCTAD in accord­ ance with the intention expressed in the said Committee, in particular by all the preference-giving
Whereas the temporary and non-binding nature of the system means that the offer can be withdrawn wholly or in part at a later date, thus maintaining the possibility of remedying any unfavourable situa­ tions which might arise following implementation of the system, including such situatioof in tbe African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States);
 Whereas experience in the initial period has shown thai the Comrnunity scheme has to a large extent achieved its intended objectives ; whereas its funda­ mental features, in particular the total suspension of customs duties, within certain limits, should there­ fore be maintained ; whereas any adjustments should essentially meet the joint requirements of simplification and differential application of prefer­ ential advantages, as these are likely to improve the transparency of the system and to ease its admini­ stration ;
Whereas use of the preferential advantages in the 1970s was concentrated on a limited number of
products and beneficiary countries; whereas it is therefore necessary to ensure a better distribution of the preferential advantages in order to provide prac­ tical assistance for the industrial development of a greater number of developing countries, especially
the least developed; whereas, at the same time, to j take account of the limits to the Community mar- ;
ket's absorption capacity and the existence of Com- | munity production, the widest possible preferential
access should be accorded to the less competitive j developing countries and the preferential advan- j tages enjoyed by the more competitive beneficiary countries accordingly limited in the case of specific products ;
Whereas, therefore, provision is made under the new scheme for a differential application of preferential treatment; whereas the products and countries to be treated selectively are determined overall on the basis of criteria relating to the degree and level of those countries' development and industrialization, their competitiveness and the sensitivity of the Community industries and markets for the products in question ;
Whereas according each beneficiary treatment appropriate to its situation allows for more equit­ able access to the preference system; whereas a simplified and more transparent system involves the application of separate tariff ceiling arrangements for each beneficiary except for the least-developed developing countries ;
Whereas tariff preferences have been applied on this new basis since 1 January 1981 and whereas it is the intention to continue to apply them during the years 1983 to 1985; whereas the tariff ceiling arrange­ ments mentioned above should differentiate between the products in Annex A by means of Com­ munity tariff quotas for products originating in the
most competitive countries and by means -of ceilings for products in Annex A originating in other less competitive countries ;
Whereas the products in Annex B should be made subject to surveillance for essentially statistical pur­ poses ;
Whereas, however, in the multilateral trade negotia­ tions, in accordance with paragraph 6 of the Tokyo declaration, the Community reaffirmed that special treatment should, whenever possible, be granted to the least developed among the developing coun­ tries ; whereas, therefore, charges on products' origin­ ating in the least developed of the developing coun­ tries listed in Annex D to this Regulation should not be subject to the Community quota or ceiling ;
Whereas the reference base to be considered when
examining the situation resulting from an increase of imports of products listed in Annex B should, as a general rule, be 13 of the highest maximum amount valid for 1980 under each of the preferential ceilings opened that year;
Whereas the rates of conversion into national cur­ rency of the preferential amounts expressed in ECU are the rates provided for in the Common Customs Tariff;
Whereas such tariff exemptions should be reserved for products originating in the countries or territo­ ries under consideration, the concept of 'originating products' being determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Council Regu­ lation (EEC) No 802/68 of 27 June 1968 on the common definition of the concept of the origin of goods (');
Whereas the Community preference arrangements applicable to Yugoslavia result exclusively from the Interim Agreement between the Community and the Socialist Federal Reoublic of Yugoslavia ^); whereas, therefore,
I ■for products originating in Yugoslavia, which are submitted to Community tariff ceilings or to a pro­ gressive abolition of customs duties within the framework of the Agreement between the Com­ munity and Yugoslavia, the movement certificate
EUR 1 shall be deemed the only documentary evi­ dence for the granting of tariff preferencesj
Whereas, since 1 January 1981 , the Hellenic Republic has applied the Community system of generalized preferences in accordance with Article 1 17 of the Act of Accession of 1979 ;
 Whereas, in respect of the Community tariff quotas specified in Annex A it is necessary in particular to ensure equal and continuous access for all Com­ munity importers to the abovementioned quotas , and to ensure uninterrupted application of the rate laid down for those quotas to all imports of the products concerned into all the Member States until the quotas are used up; whereas, having regard to the principles set out above, an arrangement where­ by the quotas are apportioned among the Member States would best respect their Community nature ; whereas, moreover, to this end and in the context of such an arrangement, the actual charges against the quotas could relate only to products entered for free circulation and accompanied by a certificate of origin ;
Whereas the application of the generally accepted principles in respect of the apportionment of the Community tariff quotas which have been opened hitherto cannot be reconciled with the continuity necessary for the application of the tariff prefer­ ences concerned; whereas it would accordingly be advisable to adopt a fixed scale for apportioning the Community tariff quotas concerned among the Member States; whereas, using as a basis general economic criteria relating to external trade, gross national product and population , the percentages for the initial shares of the Member States in the quota amounts are as follows for the quota year under consideration :
ber States and the second held as a reserve to cover the subsequent requirements of Member States
which have exhausted their initial shares; whereas, moreover, the reserve thus constituted tends to avoid making the system of utilization of the quota excessively rigid, to the detriment of each of the developing countries concerned, and contributes to achieving the aim already mentioned of improving the generalized preferences system ; whereas, to this end and to accord importers in each Member State some degree of security, the first tranche of the Community quota should be fixed at about 80 % of the quota volumes ;
Whereas Member States may exhaust their initial shares for the tariff quotas given in Annex A at dif­ ferent rates ; whereas, to avoid disruption of supplies on this account, it should be provided that each Member State which has almost used up one of its initial shares should draw an additional share from the corresponding reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional shares is almost entirely used up and repeated as many times as each of the reserves allows ; whereas each of these initial and additional shares must be available for use until the end of the quota period ;
Whereas, if, at a specified date in the quota period, a considerable balance remains in one of the initial
shares of one or other Member State, it is essential that that Member State return a portion of it to the corresponding reserve in order to prevent a part of the Community quota from remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others ;
Whereas, in the case of the Community tariff ceil­ ings listed in Annex A, the desired objectives may be attained by applying a method of administration based on the charging at Community level, against the abovementioned ceilings, of imports of the products concerned as and when these products are entered for free circulation and are accompanied by a certificate of origin; whereas this method of administration must make provision for the re­ introduction of the levying of customs duties, in accordance with the appropriate procedures, as soon as the said ceilings are reached at Community level;
Whereas, in the case of the products listed in Annex B, provision should be made for the possi­ bility of reintroducing the levying of customs duties in exceptional cases and in accordance with appro­ priate procedures and rules ;
Whereas, however, taking into account the more precise information already available concerning trade in plywood, blockboard, laminboard, batten- board and similar laminated products, falling within heading No 44.15 of the Common Customs Tariff, the abovementioned percentages should be replaced by:4•44%,5•99%,7•76%,0■19%,0•29%, 1•94%, 0-87 % and 78 • 52 % respectively ;
Whereas, to take account of future import trends in the various Member States in respect of the tariff quotas given in Annex A and to mitigate any inade­ quacy in the fixed-scale allocation, the quotas should , as a general rule , be divided into two tranches, the first being apportioned among Mem­
 Whereas such methods of administration call for close and particularly rapid cooperation between
Member States and the Commission, which must, in particular, be able to observe the extent to which charges are made against the quotas and ceilings and inform the Member States thereof; whereas such cooperation should be particularly close in view of the need for the Commission to be able to take appropriate measures to reintroduce the levying of customs duties when any of the ceilings is reached ;
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the King­ dom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united within and jointly repre­ sented by the Benelux Economic Union, all trans­ actions concerning, in particular, the administration of quota shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any one of its members ;
1 . From 1 January to 31 December 1983, the Com­ mon Customs Tariff duties on the products listed in Annexes A and B shall be totaliy suspended. In the case of the products listed in Annex A, this tariff suspension shall be accorded within the framework of tariff quotas and ceilings. The products listed in Annex B shall , as a general rule , be subject to statistical surveillance every three months on the reference base referred to in Article I ).
Imports into Greece of the products referred to '
above shall be subject to the customs duties estab­
lished in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of ^ Accession of 1979. i;
For the purpose of the application of this Regulation the value of the ECU, in which
the preferential amounts are expressed, and the rate of conversion into national currencies shall be that provided for in the Common Customs Tariff .
2. The arrangements provided for in paragraph 1 shall apply solely :
– to each country or territory listed in column 4 of Annex A, for each category of products listed in columns 2 and 3,
– for the same categories of products listed in Annex A to every other country or territory listed in Annex C, excepting Yugoslavia,
– to each of the countries or territories listed in Annex C, for the categories of products listed in Annex B,
subject to observance of the concept of originating products .
3. Imports already enjoying exemption from cus­ toms duties under other preferential tariff arrange­ ments granted by the Community shall not be charged against these tariff quotas or ceilings. Admission to the preferential arrangements set up by this Regulation shall be subject to conformity with the concept of 'originating products' deter­ mined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 802/68.
For products originating in Yugoslavia, which are submitted to Community tariff ceilings or to a pro­ gressive abolition of customs duties within the framework of the Agreement between the Com­ munity and Yugoslavia, the movement certificate EUR 1 shall be deemed the only documentary evi­ dence for the granting of tariff preferences.
4. The Community tariff quotas and ceilings shall be administered in accordance with the provisions set out below.
Provisions concerning the administration of the Community tariff quotas relating to the products listed in Annex A
The total suspension of customs duties within the framework of the Community tariff quotas referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be accorded to each country or territory listed in column 4 of Annex A, for the products specified in columns 2 and 3 against the name of the country or territory concerned, together with details in column 5 of the amount of the indivi­ dual quota.
1. A first tranche of 80% of each of the Com­ munity tariff quotas listed in Annex A, the amount of which is shown in column 6 of Annex A, shall be apportioned among the Member States; the shares
for each Member State shall, subject to Article 6, be valid until 31 December 1983 and shall be those
indicated in column 7 of Annex A against each of the categories of products subject to quota listed therein .
In the case of products falling within heading No 44.15, however, the first tranche shall amount to 98 % of the quota amount.
2. The second tranche of each of the tariff quotas shall constitute the reserve specified in each case in column 8 of Annex A.
1. Where a Member State has used 90 % or more of one of its initial shares as fixed in Annex A, or of that share minus any portion returned to the reserve pursuant to Article 6, it shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share, to the extent that the reserve so permits, equal to 10% of its ini­ tial share, rounded up, should the occasion arise, to the nearest unit.
2. Where a Member State, after exhausting one of its initial shares, has used 90% or more of the second share drawn by it, that Member State shall draw a third share, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, equal to 5 % of its initial share.
3. Where a Member State, after exhausting its second share, has used 90% or more of the third share drawn by it, that Member State shall, under the same conditions, draw a fourth sh^re equal to the third.
This process shall continue until the reserve has been exhausted.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may draw shares lower than those specified in these paragraphs if there are grounds for believing that those specified may not be used up. Any Member State applying this paragraph shall inform the Commission of its grounds for so doing.
additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 4 shall be valid until 31 December 1983.
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 October 1983, the unused portion of their initial share which, on 15 September 1983, exceeds 20 % of the initial amount. They may return
a larger portion or make an anticipatory return if
there are grounds for believing that such portion may not be used.
The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 1983, notify the Commission of the total quantities
of the productsin question imported up to
15 September 198J and charged against
theCommunityquotas^a^d. efanyportionoftheirinitial shares returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 3 and 4 and shall, as soon as the information reaches it, inform each Member State of the extent to which the reserve has been used up.
It shall, not later than 15 October 1983; inform the Member States of the amount still in reserve follow­
ing any return of shares pursuant to Article 6.
It shall ensure that, when an amount exhausting the reserve is drawn, the amount so drawn does not exceed the balance available and to this end shall notify the amount of that balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
The Member States shall take all appropriate mea­ sures to ensure that additional shares drawn pur­ suant to Article 4 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their cumulative shares of the Community tariff quotas .
The Member States shall take all appropriate mea­ sures to ensure free access to the shares which have
been allocated to them for importers of the products in question.
Provisions concerning -Hie administration of the Community tariff ceilings relating to products listed in
Annex A and the reference base relating to products listed in Annex B
Subject to Articles 10 and II, the preferential tariff ceiling arrangements shall be accorded for products in Annex A, to each of the countries or territories listed in Annex C, other than those listed in col­ umn 4 of Annex A, within the limits of the amounts
specified in column 9 against each category of products .
As soon as the individual ceilings fixed in accord­ ance with Article 9, which are laid down for imports
into the Community of products originating in any of the. countries or territories referred to in
Article 1 (2), are reached at Community level, the levying of customs duties on imports of the products in question originating in each of the countries and territories concerned may at any time be reintro­ duced until the end of the period referred to in Article 1 (1).
Where the increase of preferential imports of prod­ ucts listed in Annex B, originating in one or more beneficiary countries, causes or threatens to cause economic difficulties in the Community, or in a region of the Community, the levying of customs duties may be reintroduced, once the Commission has had an appropriate exchange of information with the Member States. The reference base to be considered when examining the situation resulting from an increase of imports shall be, as a general rule, 13tf% of the highest maximum amount valid for 1980 under each preferential ceiling opened that year.
The Commission shall reintroduce the levying of customs duties in respect of any of the countries or territories referred to in Article 1 (2), under the con­ ditions laid down in Articles 10 and 11 , by means of Regulation.
Articles 10, 1 1 and 12 shall not apply to the imports in question originating in the countries set out in Annex D.
1. The extent to which the quotas of the Member States are used up shall be determined on the basis of imports of the products in question entered for free circulation on the basis of the customs value of the said products, accompanied by a certificate of origin in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 1 (3).
2. Imports of the products in question shall be charged against import ceilings as and when the products are entered for free circulation, on the basis of the customs value of the said products, accompanied by a certificate of origin in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 1 (3).
3. Goods may be charged against a ceiling or
admitted under a quota share only if the certificate
of origin referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 is submit­
ted before the date on which the levying of duties is reintroduced .
4. The extent to which the Community tariff quo­ tas and ceilings have been used up shall be deter­ mined at Community level on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2.
5. Any amendment to the list of beneficiaries, in particular by the addition of new countries or terri­ tories, may entail a corresponding adjustment to the Community tariff quotas or ceilings.
1. Every three months, the Member States shall forward to the Statistical Office of the European Communities the information relating to imports under this Regulation, in accordance with the provi­ sions of the nomenclature of goods for external
 trade statistics of the Community and statistics of trade between Member States (NIMEXE).
2. However, in the case of products in Annex A subject to quotas, the Member States shall, by the 1 1th day of each month at the latest, forward the list of charges effected during the previous month. In the case of products in Annex A subject to ceilings, the Member States shall forward to the Commission, at its request and under the same conditions, the list
of charges effected during the previous month.
At the Commission's request, when the level of 75 % of the ceiling is reached, the Member States shall forward to the Commission the lists of charges every
10 days ; these lists shall be forwarded within five days from the end of each 10-day period.
The Member States and the Commission shall coop­ erate closely to ensure that this Regulation is com­ plied with.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1983 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States
For the Council
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
List of products subject to zero duty Community preferential tariff quotas and ceilings (b) (c)
Petroleum oils and oils obtained from bitu- minous minerals, other than crude; prepar-
ations not elsewhere specified or included, containing not less than 70 % by weight of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals, these oils being the basic constituents of the preparations :
III. For other purposes
III . For other purposes
c) For other purposes II. Fueloil:
c) For other purposes
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
(b) Preferences are not granted in respect of the products, marked with an asterisk, originating in Romania. (c) Preferences are not granted in respect of the products, marked with two asterisks, originating in China.
Community tariff quotas
ing for countries or territories
territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose (ECU ) (a) under column 4
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Lead oxides ; red lead and orange lead
ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU) (a)
Lubricating oils ; other oils :
c) To be mixed in accordance with the terms of Additional
Note 7 to Chapter 27 d) For other purposes
Ammonia, anhydrous or in aqueous solu­ tion
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
Chlorides of barium
Carbonates of sodium
Methanol (methyl alcohol)
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member Stales (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
ing for countries or territories other than those undercolumn 4 (ECU) (a)
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Benzoic acid and its salts and esters
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU) (a)
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Oxalic acid and its salts and esters
70 29.16ΒId) 0-acetylsalicylic acid and its salts and China esters
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
or territories territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose
l,2-Benzisothiazol-3-one 1,1-dioxide (o- benzoicsulphimide, saccharin) and its salts
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Methylamine, dimethylamine and trime­ thylamine and their salts
Glutamic acid and its salts
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
Community tariff quotas
Benehciary counirics or territories
Amount of firsi tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
or territories other than those undercolumn 4 (ECU)(a)
Coumarin, methylcoumanns and ethylcou- marins
Other vitamins (a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
or territories territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose
Cortisone (INN), hydrocortisone (INN) and their acetates; prednisone (INN) and prednisolone (INN)
• B. Chloramphenicol (INN) ex Ci Tetracyclines
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
Urea containing more than 45 % by weight of nitrogen on the dry anhydrous product
Superphosphates la) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
Other fertilizers ; goods of the present Chapter In tablets, lozenges and similar
prepared forms or In packings of a gross weight not exceeding 10 kg
Polypropylene in one of the forms men­ tioned in Note 3 (d) to Chapter 39
Individual Amount of Bénéficiary quota
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
or territories otherthanthose under column 4 ( ECU)(a )
Rubber tyres, tyre cases, interchangeable South Korea tyTe treads, inner tubes and tyre flaps, for
wheels of all kinds :
– New inner tubes and tyre cases of the kind used on bicycles, cycles with an auxiliary motor, motor-cycles or motor-scooters
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
(b) The asterisk covers only subhaadlngs 31.05 A I , II , ||| by 1V
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Bovine cattle leather (including buffalo
falling within heading No 41.06 or 41.08 :
ex C. Other, excluding leather not further prepared than tanned
Sheep and lamb skin leather, except leather falling within heading No 41.06 or 41.08 :
B. Other:
II. Other
Individual ceil- ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
– Other (including tyre cases with sewn- in inner tubes, for racing bicycles, and tyre flaps)
(NIMEXEcodes- leather) and equine leather, except leather
(a) Unless otherufce mdic*ted.
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Goat and kid skin leather, except leather falling within heading No 4 1 .06 or 4 1 .08 :
B. Other:
II. Other
Other kinds of leather, except leather fall- ing within heading No 41.06 or 41.08 :
B. Other:
II. Other
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
41.06 Chamois-dressed leather
cases, boxes (for example, for arms, musical instruments, binoculars, jewellery, bottles, collars, footwear, brushes) and similar con-
Community tariff quotas
ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU) (a)
tamers, of leather or of composition leather, of vulcanized fibre, of artificial plastic sheeting, of paperboard or of textile fabric :
A. Of artificial plastic sheeting
Beneficiary countries or lerritories
Amount or first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
or territories otherthan those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
B. Of other materials (a) Unless otherwise indicated.
sacks), shopping-bags, handbags, satchels, brief-cases, wallets, purses, toilet-cases, tool-cases, tobacco-pouches, sheaths, cases, boxes (for example, for arms, musical instruments, binoculars, jewellery, bottles, collars, footwear, brushes) and similar con­ tainers , of leather or of composition leather, of vulcanized fibre, of artificial plastic sheeting, of paperboard or of textile fabric :
Community tariff quotas
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
Community tariff quotas Ceilings
Beneficiary countries or territories
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Articles of apparel and clothing acces- sories, of leather or of composition leather :
B. Gloves, including mittens and mitts:
II . Special for sports III. Other
C. Other clothing accessories
Articles of apparel and clothing acces- sories, of leather or of composition leather:
B. Gloves,includingmittensandmitts: I. Protective, for all trades
Fibre building board of wood or other vegetable material, whether or not bonded with natural or artificial resins or with
other organic binders
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of firsl tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
Wood (including blocks, strips and friezes Brazil for parquet or wood block flooring, not as­ sembled), planed, tongued, grooved, rebat­
ed, chamfered, V-jointed, centre V-jointed,
44.15 (*) Plywood, blockboard, laminboard, batten- board and similar laminated wood prod­ ucts (including veneered panels and
sheets); inlaid wood and wood marquetry
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
beaded, centre-beaded or the like, but not further manufactured
Wood sawn lengthwise, sliced or peeled but not further prepared, of a thickness not exceeding 5 mm ; veneer sheets and sheets for plywood, of a thickness not exceeding 5 mm :
B. Other
Community tariff quotas
territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose (ECU) (a) under column 4
Builders' carpentry and joinery (including prefabricated and sectional buildings and assembled parquet flooring panels)
Wooden tools, tool bodies, tool handles, broom and brush bodies and handles : boot and shoe lasts and trees, of wood :
ex B. Other, excluding tools, tool bodies and tool handles
Basketwork, wickerwork and other articles China
of plaiting materials, made directly to Romania shape ; articles made up from goods falling
within heading No 46.02; articles of loofah
Amount of firsl tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial snare of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Beneficiary countries or territories
Community tariff quotas
or territories otherthan those under column 4 (ECU) (a)
Footwear with outer soles and uppers of rubber or artificial plastic material
Amount of first tranche (ECU) (a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU) (a)
Amount of reservê (ECU) (a)
ing for countries or territories otherthanthose under column 4 (ECU)(a)
Footwear with outer soles of leather or composition leather ; footwear (other than
footwear falling within heading No 64.01 ) with outer soles of rubber or artificial plas­ tic material :
A. Footwearwithuppersofleather
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
Footwear with outer soles of leather or composition leather, footwear (other than
footwear falling within heading No 64.01 ) with outer soles of rubber or artificial plas­ tic material :
B. Other
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
ing for countries or territories
territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member Stales (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Footwear with outer soles of other materials
Umbrellas and sunshades (including walk- ing-stick umbrellas, umbrella tents, and garden and similar umbrellas)
Artificial flowers, foliage or fruit and parts thereof; articles made of artificial flowers, foliage or fruit
Wigs, false beards, eyebrows and eyelash- es, switches and the like, of human or ani­ mal hair or of textiles ; other articles of hu­ man hair (including hair nets)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
ingfor countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or lerritories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Tableware and other articles of a kind commonly used for domestic or toilet pur­ poses, of porcelain or china (including bis­ cuit porcelain and parian)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Glazed setts, flags and paving, hearth and wall tiles
Community tariff quotas
or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
Beneficiary Individual Amount of Initial share of quota amounts Amount of ing for countries countries or quota first tranche allocated to Member States reserve or territories
C. Earthenware or fine pottery
Statuettes and other ornaments, and arti­ cles of personal adornment ; articles of fur- niture
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Tableware and other articles of a kind South Korea commonly used for domestic or toilet pur-
poses, or other kinds of pottery :
Community tariff quotas Ceilings
territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose
Glassware (other than articles falling within heading No 70.19) of a kind com­ monly used for table , kitchen , toilet or office purposes, for indoor decoration, or for similar uses
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
ware and optical elements of glass, not optically worked nor of optical glass :
A. Articlesforelectricallightingfittings: II. Other (for example, diffusers, ceil­
ware and optical elements of glass, not
opticallyworkednorofopticalglass: GR
B. Other
Community tariff quotas
or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of
Individual ceil- ing for countries or territories
Bars and rods (including wire rod), of iron or steel, hot rolled, forged, extruded, cold- formed or cold-finished (including preci- sion-made); hollow mining drill steel :
B. Notfurtherworkedthanforged
C. Not further worked than cold-formed or cold-finished
D. Clad or surface-worked (for example, polished, coated):
I. Not further worked than clad :
b) Cold-formed or cold-finished II. Other
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
73.11 Angles, shapes and sections, of iron or steel, hot-rolled, forged, extruded, cold- formed or cold-finished ; sheet piling of iron and steel , whether or not drilled , punched or made from assembled ele-
II. Not further worked than forged
III . Not further worked than cold- formed or cold-finished
IV. Clad or surface-worked (for exam- ple, polished, coated):
a) Not further worked than clad :
2. Cold-formed or cold- finished
b) Other
Hoop and strip, of iron or steel, hot-rolled or cold-rolled :
B. Not further worked than cold-rolled : II. Other
C. Clad, coated or otherwise surface- treated :
Community tariff quotas
or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU) (a)
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
I. Silvered, gilded or platinum-plated II . Enamelled
b) Other
IV. Zinc-coated or lead-coated
V. Other (for example, copper-plated, artificially oxidized, lacquered, nickel-plated, varnished, clad, par­
a) Not further worked than clad :
2. Cold-rolled b) Other'
D. Otherwise shaped or worked (for exam­ ple, perforated, hammered, lap-jointed)
Iron or steel wire, whether or not coated, but not insulated
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose (ECU) (a) under column 4
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member Slates
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
Alloy steel and high carbon steel in the Brazll
form mentioned in heading Nos 73.06 to 73.14 :
I. Ingots, biooms, billets, slabs and sheet bars :
Pieces roughly shaped by forging
Bars and rods ( including wire rod) and hollow mining drill steel ; angles, shapes and sec­ tions :
a) Not further worked than forged
c) Not further worked than cold-formed or cold-finished
d) Clad or surface-worked (for example, polished, coated):
1 . Not further worked than clad :
bb) Cold-formed or cold- finished
2. Other
Hoop and strip:
b) Not further worked than cold-rolled
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
ing for countries or territories
territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose (ECU)(a) under column 4
c) Clad,-coatedorotherwisesur- face-treated :
1 . Not further worked than clad :
bb) Cold-rolled 2. Other
d) Otherwise shaped or worked (for example, perforated, chamfered, lap-jointed)
b) Not further worked than cold-rolled, of a thickness of:
1. 3 mm or more
d) Otherwise'shapedorworked:
2. Other, excluding sheets and plates shaped by roll­ ing
VIII. Wire, whether or not coated, but not insulated
I. Ingots, blooms, billets, slabs and sheet bars :
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
II . Pieces roughly shaped by forging
V. Bars and rods (including wire rod ) and hollow mining drill steel : angles, shapes and sec­ tions :
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
a) Not further worked than forged
c) Not further worked than cold-formed or cold-finished
d) Clad or surface-worked (for example, polished, coated):
1. Not further worked than clad :
bb) Cold-formed or cold- finished
2. Other
Hoop and strip:
b) Not further worked than cold-rolled .
c) Clad, coated or otherwise sur- face-treated :
1 . Not further worked than clad :
bb) Cold-rolled 2. Other
Community tariff quotas
ing for countries or territories otherthan those under column 4
d) Otherwise shaped or worked (for example, perforated, chamfered, lap-jointed)
VII. Sheets and plates:
b) Othersheetsandplates:
2. Not further worked than cold-rolled, of a thickness of:
aa) 3 mm or more
4. Otherwise shaped or worked :
bb) Other, excluding sheets and plates shaped by rolling
VIII. Wire, whether or not coated, but not insulated
Tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, of iron (other than of cast iron) or steel, ex- cluding high-pressure hydro-electric con­ duits
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
Nails, tacks, staples, hook-nails, corrugated nails, spiked cramps, studs, spikes and drawing pins, of iron or steel, whether or not with heads of other materials, but not including such articles with heads of cop­ per
Bolts and nuts (including bolt ends and screw studs), whether or not threaded or tapped, screws (including screw hooks and screw rings), rivets, cotters, cotter-pins and similar articles, of iron or steel ; washers (including spring washers) of iron or steel :
B. Threadedortapped: ex II. Other:
– Screws for wood
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
or territories otherthan those under column 4 (ECU) (a)
Other articles of iron or steel
Individual Amount of Beneficiary quota
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU) (a)
Amount of reserve (ECU) (a)
ing for countries or territories otherthanthose under column 4 (ECU) (a)
Wrought plates, sheets and strip, of copper
Tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, of copper ; hollow bars of copper
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
(b) The asterisk covers only products other than parts of box pallets (with mash products).
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU) (a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU) (a)
Amount of reserve (ECU) (a)
Hand tools,Including glaziers' dlaaonds. not falling within any other heading ofthU Chapter; blow lamps, anvils; vices and
' clamps, other than accessories for, and parts of, machine tools; portable forges; grinding wheels with frameworks (hand or pedal operated)
Knives with cutting blades, serrated or not (including pruning knives), other than knives falling within heading No 82.06, and blades therefor:
82.14 Spoons, forks, fish-eaters, butter-knives, South Korea 926 100 740 900 BNL 77 79S 185 200 2 200 000
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
ladles and similar kitchen or tableware : A. Of stainless steel
Community tariff quotas
ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 <ECU)(a)
Locks and padlocks (key, combination or electrically operated), and parts, thereof, of base metal; frames incorporating locks, for handbags, trunks or the like, and parts Of such frames, of base metal ; keys for any of the foregoing articles, of base metal
Beneftciary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU) (a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU) (a)
Amount of reserve (ECU) (a)
or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
Air pumps, vacuum pumps and air or gas compressors (including motor and turbo pumps and compressors, and free-piston generators for gas turbines); fans, blowers and the like :
II . Other pumps and compressors
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
Sewing machines; furniture specially de­ signed for sewing machines; sewing mach­ ine needles :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
I. Sewing machines (lock-stitch only), with heads of a weight not exceeding 16 kg without motor or
17 kg including the motor; sewing machine heads (lock-stitch only), of a weight not exceeding 16 kg without motor or 17 kg including the motor:
b) Other
II. Other sewing machines and other sewing machine heads
(a) unless otherwise indicated.
A. Sewing machines ; furniture designed for sewing machines :
specially
Community tariff quotas
or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU) (a)
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
ing for countries or territories
III. Parts : furniture specially designed for sewing machines
Electrical goods of the following descrip­ tions : generators, motors, converters (ro­ tary or static), transformers, rectifiers and rectifying apparatus, inductors:
I. Generators, motors (whether or not equipped with speed reducing, changing or step-up gear) and ro­ tary converters :
b) Other
Primary cells and primary batteries (a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose (ECU) (a) under column 4
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Radiotelegraphic and radiotelephonic Hong Kong 2 500 000 2 000 000 BNL
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Portable electric battery and magneto Hong Kong ΐ 655 500 1 324 400 BNL
lamps, other than lamps falling, within heading No 85.09:
B. Other
transmission and reception apparatus ; radio-broadcasting and television transmis­ sion and reception apparatus (including re­ ceivers, incorporating sound recorders or reproducers) and television cameras ; radio navigational aid apparatus, radar appara­ tus and radio remote control apparatus;
A. Radiotelegraphic and radiotelephonic transmission and reception apparatus; radio-broadcasting and television trans­ mission and reception apparatus (in­ cluding receivers incorporating sound
recorders or reproducers) and television cameras :
Community tariff quotas
or territories otherthan those undercolumn 4 (ECU) (a)
Beneftctary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial snare of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
tcrrilories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose (ECU) (a) under column 4
III . Receivers, whether or not com­ bined with a sound recorder or re­
b) Other Parts :
II. Other:
c) Other
Electrical capacitor*, fixed or variable
Electric filament lamps and electric dis­ charge lamps (including infra-red and ultra-violet lamps), arc lamps :
A. Filamentlampsforlighting: II. Other
(a) Unless otherwise*indicated.
Community tariff quotas
Thermionic, cold cathode and photo-cath- ode valves and tubes (including vapour or gas-filled valves and tubes, cathode-ray tubes, television camera tubes and mercury arc rectifying valves and tubes); photo­ cells ; mounted piezo-electric crystals ; diodes, transistors and similar semi-con- ductor devices ; light-emitting diodes ; elec­ tronic micro-circuits :
A. Valves and tubes
C. Mounted piezo-electric crystals
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Community tariff quotas
or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
Beneficiary coumries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Individual ceil­ ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
D. Diodes, transistors and similar semi­ Hong Kong 1 050 000 840 000 BNL
or ano­ the like (including co-axial cable), whether
or not fitted with connectors : B. Other
Refracting telescopes (monocular and bi­ nocular), prismatic or not
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Insulated
Community tariff quotas
Image projectors (other than cinemato- graphic projectors); photographic (except cinematographic) enlargers and reducers
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Clocks with watch movements (excluding clocks of headings No 91.01 and 91.03)
Other clocks
Watch movements (including stop-watch movements), assembled
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Watch cases and parts of watch cases
Community tariff quotas
Individual ceil- ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU)(a)
Other clock and watch parts
Beneficiary countries or
Amount of first tranche
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
Amount of reserve
68810159007451200 It 5
or territories territories • amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Gramophones, dictating machines and HongKong 6 079 60U 4 063 700 BNL
other sound recorders or reproducers, in­ cluding record players and tape decks, with or without sound heads; television image and sound recorders or reproducers :
A. Sound recorders or reproducers
Gramophone records and other sound or similar recordings ; matrices for the produc­ tion of records, prepared record blanks, film for mechanical sound recording, pre­ pared tapes, wires, strips and like articles of a kind commonly used for sound or sim­ ilar recording
Chairs and other seats (other than those falling within heading No 94.02), whether or not convertible into beds, and parts thereof:
B. Other:
II. Other
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of reserve (ECU)(a)
Other furniture and parts thereof: B. Other furniture
Paint, distemper, varnish and similar brushes ; brushes for cosmetics and person- al toiletry ; road-sweeping brushes ; house- hold type brooms and brushes, including
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
shoe brushes and clothes brushes ; for grooming animals
Community tariff quotas
ing for countries or territories other than those under column 4 (ECU) (a)
Other toys ; working models of a kind used for recreational purposes
Beneficiary counlries or territories
Amount of first tranche (ECU)(a)
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States (ECU)(a)
Amount of réserve (ECU)(a)
Individual ceil­ ing for countries or territories other than those undercolumn 4 (ECU)(a)
Equipment for parlour, table and funfair games for adults or children (including bil­ liard tables and pin-tables and table-tennis requisites)
Carnival articles; entertainment articles HongKong 1 582 100 1 265 700 BNL (for example, conjuring tricks and novelty DK jokes); Christmas tree decorations and D similar articles for Christmas festivities (for GR example, artificial Christmas trees, Christ­ F mas stockings, imitation Yule-logs, Nativi­ IRL
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
ty scenes and figures therefor)
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or
Community tariff quotas
Amount of first tranche
Amount of reserve
ing for countries or territories
(a) Unless otherwise indicated.
Vacuum flasks and other vacuum vessels, complete with cases; parts thereof, other than glass inners
Initial share of quota amounts allocated to Member States
territories amount (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) (ECU)(a) otherthanthose (ECU) (a) under column 4
Agglomerated peat
Coke and semi-coke of coal, of lignite' or of peat; whether or not agglomerated; retort carbon ;
A. Coke and semi-coke ofcoal :
I. For the manufacture of electrodes
C. Other
Oils and other products of the distillation of high temperature coal tar; similar products as defined in Note 2 to this Chapter
Petroleum gases and other gaseous hydrocarbons Petroleum jelly
Paraffin wax, micro-crystalline wax, slack wax, ozokerite, lignite wax, peat wax and other mineral waxes, whether or not coloured
Petroleum bitumen, petroleum coke and other residues of petroleum oils or of oils obtained from bituminous minerals
Bituminous mixtures based on natural asphalt, on natural bitumen, on petroleum bitumen, on mineral tar or on mineral tar pitch (for example, bituminous mastics,
List of products originating in developing countries and territories, enjoying generalized tariff preferences, in respect of which duties under the Common Customs Tariff are totally suspended (a) (b) (c)
Magnesium oxide other than calcined natural magnesium carbonate
Quicklime, slaked lime and hydraulic lime, other than calcium oxide and hydroxide
Portland cement, ciment fondu, slag cement, supersulphate cement and similar hydraulic cements, whether or not coloured or in the form of clinker
ex 28.01 Halogens (fluorine, chlorine, bromine and iodine), excluding crude iodine
28.02 Sulphur, sublimed or precipitated ; colloidal sulphur
(a) Manufactured and semi-finished industrial products qualifying under the ordinary arrange­ ments for exemption or total temporary suspension of the Common Customs Tariff duty are only token entries; this applies in particular for products intended for use in civil aircraft.
(b) Preferences are not to be granted in respect of the products, marked with an asterisk, originat­ ing in Romania.
(c) Preferences are not to be granted in respect of the products, marked with two asterisks, origin­ ating in China.
Hydrogen, rare gases and other non-metals, but not including selenium and silicon
Hydrochloric acid and chlorosulphuric acid
Sulphuric acid ; oleum
Phosphorus pentoxide and phosphoric acids (meta-, ortho- and pyro-) Boric oxide and boric acid
Other inorganic acids and oxygen compounds of non-metals (excluding water)
Halides, oxyhalides and other halogen compounds of non-metals
Sulphides of non-metals ; phosphorus trisulphide
Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda); potassium hydroxide (caustic potash); peroxides of sodium or potassium
Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium; oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, of strontium or barium
Zinc oxide and zinc peroxide Artificial corundum
Chromium oxides and hydroxides Manganese oxides
Iron oxides and hydroxides ; earth colours containing 70% or more by weight of combined iron evaluated as Fe^O,
Cobalt oxides and hydroxides ; commercial cobalt oxides
Hydrazine and hydroxylamine and their inorganic salts ; other inorganic bases and metallic oxides, hydroxides and peroxides, excluding antimony oxides
Fluorides ; fluorosilicates, fluoroborates and other complex fluorine salts
Chlorides, oxychlorides and hydroxychlorides, excluding barium chlorides; bro­ mides and oxybromides ; iodides and oxyiodides
Hypochlorites ; commercial calcium hypochlorite ; chlorites ; hypobromites Chlorates and perchlorates, bromates and perbromates ; iodates and periodates Sulphides; polysulphides
Dithionites, including those stabilized with organic substances; sulphoxylates *
Sulphites and thiosulphates
Sulphates (including alums) and persulphates
Nitntes and nitrates
Phosphites, hypophosphites and phosphates
Carbonates and percarbonates; commercial ammonium carbonate containing ammonium carbamate, excluding carbonates of sodium
Salts of metallic acids (for example, chromates, permanganates, stannates), exclu­
Other salts and peroxysalts of inorganic acids, but not including azides
Colloidal precious metals; amalgams of precious metals; salts and other com­ pounds, inorganic or organic, of precious metals including albuminates, protein- ates, tannates and similar compounds, whether or not chemically defined
Fissile chemical elements and isotopes ; other radioactive chemical elements and radioactive isotopes : compounds, inorganic or organic, of such elements or iso­ topes, whether or not chemically defined ; alloys, dispersions and cermets, contain­ ing any of these elements, isotopes or compounds :
B. Other(a)
Isotopes and their compounds, inorganic or organic, whether or not chemically de­ fined, other than isotopes and compounds falling within heading No 28.50:
B. Other
Compounds, inorganic or organic, of thorium, of uranium depleted in U 235, of rare earth metals, of yttrium or of scandium, whether or not mixed together
Hydrogen peroxide (including solid hydrogen peroxide) Phosphides, whether or not chemically defined
Carbides, whether or not chemically defined (*) (b)
Hydrides, nitrides and azides, silicides and borides, whether or not chemically defined
Other inorganic compounds (including distilled and conductivity water and water of similar purity); liquid air (whether or not rare gases have been removed); com­ pressed air; amalgams, other than amalgams of precious metals
Cyanides and complex cyanides
Fulminates, cyanates and thiocyanates
Silicates ; commercial sodium and potassium silicates
Borates and perborates
(a) Ex B: Artificial radioactive isotopes and their compounds (Euratom). (b) The asterisk covers only subheading 28.56 C.
Halogenated derivatives of hydrocarbons
Sulphonated , nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of hydrocarbons
Acyclic alcohols and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated and nitrosated deri­ vatives :
A. Saturated monohydric alcohols
Propan-l-ol (propyl alcohol) and propan-2-ol (isopropyl alcohol) Butanol and isomers thereof
Pentanol (amyl alcohol) and isomers thereof
V. Other
B. Unsaturated monohydric alcohols C. Polyhydricalcohols:
Diols, triols and tetraols, excluding ethylene glycol Other polyhydric alcohols
Cyclic tives
Phenols and phenol-alcohols (*) (a)
Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of phenols or phenol- alcohols, excluding dinosebe (ISO)
Ethers, ether-alcohols, ether-phenols, ether-alcohol-phenols, alcohol peroxides and ether peroxides and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated deriva­ tives, excluding diethylene glycol
Epoxides , epoxyalcohols , epoxyphenols and epoxyethers , with a three or four member ring, and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
Acetals and hemiacetals and single or complex oxygen-function acetals and hemi­ acetals, and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
Aldehydes, aldehyde-alcohols, aldehyde-ethers, aldehyde-phenols and other single or complex oxygen-function aldehydes ; cyclic polymers of aldehydes ; paraformal­ dehyde (*) (b)
Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of products falling within heading No 29.1 1
Ketones, ketone-alcohols, ketone-phenols, ketone-aldehydes, quinones, quinone- alcohols, quinone-phenols, quinone-aldehydes and other single or complex oxy­ gen-function ketones and quinones, and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives (*) (c)
Monocarboxylic acids and their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peracids, and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives, excluding ethyl acetate and benzoic acid, its salts and esters
Polycarboxylic acids and their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peracids, and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives, excluding oxalic acid and its salts and esters frvjL PvL&aXe, AJ^\^AJTVASL
derivates of polyhydric alcohols and their halogenated , sulphonated , nitrated or nitrosated deriva­
Halogenated , sulphonated , nitrated or nitrosated alcohols
(a) The asterisk covers only subheading 29.06 A I.
(b) The asterisk covers only subheading 29.11 E ex I (vanillin) (4-hydroxy-3 methoxybenzalde-
(c) The asterisk covers only subheading 29.13 A ex I (acetone).
Carboxylic acids with alcohol, phenol, aldehyde or ketone function and other sin­ gle or complex oxygen-function carboxylic acids and their anhydrides, halides, per­ oxides and peracids, and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives, excludingAsalicylic acid and O-acetylsalicylic acid and its salts and esters Wvtvic. \
Phosphoric esters and their salts, including lactophosphates, and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
Other esters of mineral acids (excluding halides) and their salts, and their halogen­ ated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
Amine-function compounds, excluding methylamine, dimethylamine and trimethyl­ amine and their salts
Single or complex oxygen-function amino-compounds, excluding glutamic acid and its salts
Carboxyamide-function compounds ; amide-function compounds of carbonic acid, excluding paracetamol
Carboxyimide-function compounds (including ortho-benzoicsulphimide and its salts) and imine-function compounds (including tri- methylenetrinitramine), excluding l,2-Benzisothiazol-3-one I,I-dioxide (O-ben- zoicsulphimide, saccharin) and its salts
Nitrile-function compounds, excluding acrylonitrile Diazo-, azo- and azoxy-compounds
Organic derivatives of hydrazine or of hydroxylamine
Compounds with other nitrogen-functions
Other organo-inorganic compounds
Heterocyclic compounds: nucleic acids, excluding melamine, coumarins, methyl coumarins and ethylcoumarins
Sultones and sultams
Provitamins and vitamins, natural or reproduced by synthesis (including natural concentrates), derivatives thereof used primarily as vitamins, and intermixtures of the foregoing, whether or not in any solvent : (*) (a)
A. Provitamins, unmixed, whether or not in aqueous solution
Quaternary ammonium salts and hydroxides ; lecithins and other phosphoaminoli-
(a) The asterisk covers only subheading 29.38 B ex II (vitamins B12).
Vitamins, unmixed, whether or not in aqueous solution : I Vitamins A
Natural concentrates of vitamins :
I. Natural concentrates of vitamins A + D
II. Other
D. Intermixtures, whether or not in any solvent; non-aqueous solutions of provi­ tamins or vitamins -
Hormones, natural or reproduced by synthesis; derivatives thereof, used primarily as hormones ; other steroids used primarily as hormones :
C. Pituitary (anterior) and similar hormones : I. Gonadotrophic hormones
II. Other
D. Adrenal (cortex) hormones: II. Other
E. Other hormones and other steroids
Glycosides, natural or reproduced by synthesis, and their salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives
Vegetable alkaloids, natural or reproduced by synthesis, and their salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives
Sugars, chemically pure, other than sucrose, glucose and lactose; sugar ethers and
sugar esters, and their salts, other than products of heading Nos 29.39, 29.41 and
Other organic compounds
30.01 Organo-therapeutic glands or other organs, dried, whether or not powdered; organo-therapeutic extracts of glands or other organs or of their secretions ; other animal substances prepared for therapeutic or prophylactic uses, not elsewhere spe­ cified or included
30.02 Antisera, microbial vaccines, toxins, microbial cultures (including ferments but excluding yeasts) and similar products
30.03 Medicaments (including veterinary medicaments)
30.04 Wadding, gauze, bandages and similar articles (for example, dressings, adhesive plasters, poultices) impregnated or coated with pharmaceutical substances or put up in retail packings for medical or surgical purposes, other than goods specified in Note 3 of this Chapter
30.05 Other pharmaceutical goods
31.02 Minerai or chemical fertilizers, nitrogenous : A. Natural sodium nitrate
C. Other (*)
ex 3 1 .03 Mineral or chemical fertilizers, phosphatic, excluding superphosphates (*) (a)
31.04 B Mineral or chemical fertilizers, potassic, mentioned in Note 3 (B) to this Chapter
32.01 Tanning extracts of vegetable origin ; tannins ( tannic acids ), including water- extracted gall-nut tannin, and their salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives:
B. Other
32.03 Synthetic organic tanning substances and inorganic tannings substances; tanning preparations, whether or not containing natural tanning materials; enzymatic pre­ parations for pre-tanning (for example, of enzymatic, pancreatic or bacterial origin)
32.04 Colouring matter of vegetable origin (including dyewood extract and other vegeta­ ble dyeing extracts, but excluding indigo) or of animal origin
32.05 Synthetic organic dyestuffs ( including pigment dyestuffs ); synthetic organic prod­ ucts of a kind used as luminophores ; products of the kind known as optical bleach­ ing agents,-substantive to the fibre; natural indigo
32.07 Other colouring matter ; inorganic products of a kind used as luminophores
32.08 Prepared pigments, prepared opacifiers and prepared colours, vitrifiable enamels and glazes, liquid lustres and similar products, of the kind used in the ceramic, enaT melling and glass industries; engobes (slips); glass frit and other glass, in the form of powder, granules or flakes
32.09 Varnishes and lacquers ; distempers ; prepared water pigments of the kind used for Finishing leather; paints and enamels; pigments in linseed oil, white spirit, spirits of turpentine, varnish or other paint or enamel media; stamping foils; dyes or other colouring matter in forms or packings of a kind sold by retail ; solutions as defined in Note 4 to this Chapter
32.10 Artists', students' and signboard painters' colours, modifying tints, amusement colours and the like, in tablets, tubes, jars, bottles, pans or in similar forms or pack­ ings, including such colours in sets or outfits, with or without brushes, palettes or other accessories
32.11 Prepared driers
32.12 Glaziers' putty ; grafting putty ; painters' fillings ; non-refractory surfacing prepara­ tions ; stopping, sealing and similar mastics, including resin mastics and cements
32.13 Writing ink, printing ink and other inks
(a) The asterisk covers only subheading 31.03 B.
Albuminates and other albumin derivatives
Gelatin (including gelatin in rectangles, whether or not coloured or surface-worked) and gelatin derivatives; glues derived from bones, hides, nerves, tendons or from similar products and fish glues ; isinglass, excluding gelatin and gelatin derivatives
Peptones and other protein substances (excluding enzymes of heading No 35.07) and their derivates ; hide powder, whether or not chromed
Prepared glues not elsewhere specified or included; products suitable for use as glues put up for sale by retail as glues in packages not exceeding a net weight of
Enzymes ; prepared enzymes not elsewhere specified or included -
Artificial graphite ; colloidal graphite, other than suspensions in oil
Activated carbon ; activated natural mineral products ; animal spent animal black
Tall oil
Spirits of turpentine (gum, wood and sulphate) and other terpenic solvents pro­ duced by the distillation or other treatment of coniferous woods ; crude dipentene ; sulphite turpentine; pine oil (excluding 'pine oils' not rich in terpineol)
Rosin and resin acids, and derivatives thereof other than ester gums included in heading No 39.05 ; rosin spirit and rosin oils
Wood tar; wood tar oils (other than the compositive solvents and thinners falling within heading No 38.18); wood creosote ; wood naphtha ; acetone oil ; vegetable pitch of all kinds; brewers' pitch and similar compounds based on rosin or on vegetable pitch ; foundry core binders based on natural resinous products
Disinfectants, insecticides, fungicides, rat poisons, herbicides, anti-sprouting prod­ ucts, plant-growth regulators and similar products, put up in forms or packings for sale by retail or as preparations or articles (for example, sulphur-treated bands, wicks and candles, flypapers)
Prepared glazings, prepared dressings and prepared mordants of a kind used in the textile, paper, leather or like industries :
B. Prepared mordants
Pickling preparations for metal surfaces : fluxes and other auxiliary preparations for soldering, brazing or welding: soldering, brazing or welding powders and pastes consisting of metal and other materials : preparations of a kind used as cores or coatings for welding rods and electrodes
Anti-knock preparations, oxidation inhibitors, gum inhibitors, viscosity improvers, anti-corrosive preparations and similar prepared additives for mineral oils
Prepared rubber accelerators
Prepared culture media for development of micro-organisms
Preparations and charges for fre-extinguishers ; charged fire-extinguishing grenades Composite solvents and thinners for varnishes and similar products
Chemical products and preparations of the chemical or allied industries (including those consisting of mixtures of natural products), not elsewhere specified or included : residual products of the chemical or allied industries, not elsewhere spe­ cified or included, excluding D-glucitol (sorbitol), other than that falling within subheading 29.04 C III .
Condensation, polycondensation and polyaddition products, whether or not mod­ ified or polymerized, and whether or not linear (for example, phenoplasts, amino­ plasts, alkyds, polyallyl esters, and other unsaturated polyesters, silicones)
Polymerization and copolymerization products (for example, polyethylene, polytet- rahaloethylenes, polyisobutylene, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, polyvinyl ace­ tate, polyvinyl chloroacetate and other polyvinyl derivatives, polyacrylic and poly­ methacrylic derivatives, coumarone-indene resins), excluding polypropylene in one of the forms mentioned in Note 3 (d) to Chapter 39 (*) (a)
- Regenerated cellulose ; cellulose nitrate, cellulose acetate and other cellulose esters, cellulose ethers and other chemical derivatives of cellulose, plasticized or not (for
Natural resins modified by fusion (run gums); artificial resins obtained by esterifi­ cation of natural resins or of resinic acids (ester gums); chemical derivatives of natural rubber (for example, chlorinated rubber, rubber hydrochloride, oxidized rubber, cyclized rubber) ,
(a) The asterisk covers only subheadings 39.02 C I . TX Wit
ex 39.06 Other high polymers, artificial resins and artificial plastic materials, including alginic acid, its salts and esters, excluding heparine; linoxyn
39.07 Articles of materials of the kinds described in heading Nos 39.01 to 39.06
Synthetic rubber latex ; pre-vulcanized synthetic rubber latex ; synthetic rubber ; fac­ tice derived from oils
Plates, sheets and strip, of unvulcanized natural or synthetic rubber, other than smoked sheets and crepe sheets of heading No 40.01 or 40.02 ; granules of unvul­ canized natural or synthetic rubber compounded ready for vulcanization ; unvul­ canized natural or synthetic rubber, compounded before or after coagulation either with carbon black (with or without the addition of mineral oil) or with silica (with or without the addition of mineral oil), in any form, of a kind known as master­ batch
Unvulcanized natural or synthetic rubber, including rubber latex, in other forms or states (for example, rods, tubes and profile shapes, solutions and dispersions); arti­ cles of unvulcanized natural or synthetic rubber (for example, coated or impreg­ nated textile thread ; rings and discs)
Vulcanized rubber thread and cord, whether or not textile covered, and textile thread covered or impregnated with vulcanized rubber
Plates, sheets, strip, rods and profile shapes, of unhardened vulcanized rubber
Piping and tubing, of unhardened vulcanized rubber
Transmission, conveyor or elevator belts or belting, of vulcanized rubber
Hygienic and pharmaceutical articles (including teats), of unhardened vulcanized rubber, with or without fittings of hardened rubber
Articles of apparel and clothing accessories (including gloves), for all purposes, of unhardened vulcanized rubber
Other articles of unhardened vulcanized rubber
Hardened rubber (ebonite and vulcanite), in bulk, plates, sheets, strip, rods, profile shapes or tubes ; scrap, waste and powder, of hardened rubber
Articles of hardened rubber (ebonite and vulcanite)
Patent leather and imitation patent leather ; metallized leather
Composition leather with a basis of leather or leather fibre, in slabs, in sheets or in rolls
42.01 Saddlery and harness, of any material (for example, saddles, harness, collars, traces, knee-pads and boots ), for any kind of animal
Furskins, tanned or dressed, including furskins assembled in plates, crosses and similar forms; pieces or cuttings, of furskin, tanned or dressed, including heads, paws, tails and the like (not being fabricated)
Articles of furskin
Artificial fur and articles made thereof i
Wood sawn lengthwise, sliced or peeled, but not further prepared, of a thickness exceeding 5 mm :
B. Coniferous wood, of a length of 125 cm or less and of a thickness of less than 12-5 mm
Railway or tramway sleepers of wood
Hoopwood ; split poles : piles, pickets and stakes of wood, pointed but not sawn lengthwise ; chipwood : drawn wood : wood shavings of a kind suitable for use in the manufacture of vinegar or for the clarification of liquids; wooden sticks, roughly trimmed but not turned, bent or otherwise worked, suitable for the manu­ facture of walking-sticks, umbrella handles, tool handles or the like
Wood wool and wood flour
Wood sawn lengthwise, sliced or peeled but not further prepared, of a thickness not exceeding 5 mm; veneer sheets and sheets for plywood, of a thickness not exceed­ ing 5 mm:
A. Small boards for the manufacture of pencils
Cellular wood panels, whether or not faced with base metal 'Improved' wood, in sheets, blocks or the like
Reconstituted wood, being wood shavings, wood chips, sawdust, wood flour or other ligneous waste agglomerated with natural or artificial resins or other organic binding substances, in sheets, blocks or the like (*)
Wooden headings and mouldings, including moulded skirting and other moulded boards
Wooden picture frames, photograph frames, mirror frames and the like Complete wooden packing cases, boxes, crates, drums and similar packings
Casks, barrels, vats, tubs, buckets and other coopers' products and parts thereof, of wood, including staves
42.04 Articles of leather or of composition leather of a kind used in machinery or mechanical appliances or for industrial purposes
42.05 Other articles of leather or of composition leather
42.06 Articles made from gut (other than silk-worm gut), from goldbeater's skin, from bladders or from tendons
Household utensils of wood
Wooden tools, tool bodies, tool handles, broom and brush bodies and handles; boot and shoe lasts and trees, of wood, excluding - '
. the articles listed in Annex A of the present Regulation •fcUat CpfVXSp O'
Spools, cops, bobbins, sewing thread reel and the like, of turned wood
Standard lamps, table lamps and other lighting fittings, of wood ; articles of furni­ ture, of wood, not falling within Chapter 94; caskets, cigarette boxes, trays, fruit bowls, ornaments and other fancy articles, of wood ; cases for cutlery, for drawing instruments or for violins, and similar receptacles, of wood; articles of wood for personal use or adornment, of a kind normally carried in the pocket, in the hand­ bag or on the person ; parts of the foregoing articles, of wood
Other articles of wood
Natural cork in blocks, plates, sheets or strips (including cubes or square slabs, cut to size for corks or stoppers)
Articles of natural cork
Agglomerated cork (being cork agglomerated with or without a binding substance) and articles of agglomerated cork
46.02 Plaits and similar products of plaiting materials, for all uses, whether or not assembled into strips; plaiting materials bound together in parallel strands or woven, in sheet form, including matting, mats and screens ; straw envelopes for bottles
47.02 Waste paper and paperboard ; scrap articles of paper or of paperboard, fit only for use in paper-making :
Paper and paperboard (including cellulose wadding), in rolls or sheets: A. Newsprint
C. Kraft paper and kraft board :
I. For the manufacture of paper yarn of heading No 57.07 or of paper yarn
D. Paper weighing not more than 15 g/m: for use in stencil making
E. Hand-made paper and paperboard F. Other
Parchment Or greaseproof paper and paperboard, and imitations thereof, and glazed transparent paper, in rolls or sheets
Composite paper or paperboard (made by sticking flat layers together with an adhesive), not surface-coated or impregnated, whether or not internally reinforced, in rolls or sheets
A. Wastepaperandpaperboard: II. Other
Paper and paperboard, corrugated (with or without flat surface sheets), creped, crinkled, embossed or perforated, in rolls or sheets
Paper and paperboard, impregnated, coated, surface-coloured, surface-decorated or printed (not constituting printed matter within Chapter 49), in rolls or sheets
Filter blocks, slabs and plates, of paper pulp
Cigarette paper, cut to size, whether or not in the form of booklets or tubes Wallpaper and lincrusta ; window transparencies of paper
Floor coverings prepared on a base of paper or of paperboard, whether or not cut to size, with or without a coating of linoleum compound
Carbon and other copying papers (including duplicator stencils) and transfer papers, cut to size, whether or not put up in boxes
Writing blocks, envelopes, letter cards, plain postcards, correspondence cards; boxes, pouches, wallets and writing compendiums, of paper or paperboard, con­ taining only an assortment of paper stationery
bther paper and paperboard, cut to size or shape
Boxes, bags and other packing containers, of paper or paperboard; box files, letter trays and similar articles, of paper or paperboard, of a kind commonly used in off­ ices, shops and the like
Registers, exercise books, note books, memorandum blocks, order books, receipt books, diaries, blotting-pads, binders (loose-leaf or other), file covers and other sta­ tionery of paper or paperboard; sample and other albums and book covers, of paper or paperboard
Paper or paperboard labels, whether or not printed or gummed
Bobbins, spools, cops and similar supports of paper pulp, paper or paperboard (whether or not perforated or hardened)
Other articles of paper pulp, paper, paperboard or cellulose wadding
64.03 Footwear with outer soles of wood or cork
64.05 Parts of footwear, removable in-soles, hose protectors and heel cushions, of any material except metal (*)
64.06 Gaiters, spats, leggings, puttees, cricket pads, shin-guards and similar articles, and parts thereof
66.02 Walking-sticks (including climbing-sticks and seat-sticks), canes, whips, riding- crops and the like
66.03 Parts, fittings, trimmings and accessories of articles falling within heading No 66.01 or 66.02
67.01 Skins and other parts of birds with their feathers or down, feathers, parts of feath­ ers, down, and articles thereof (other than goods falling within heading No 05.07 and worked quills and scapes)
67.03 Human hair, dressed, thinned, bleached or otherwise worked; wool, other animal hair and other textile materials prepared for use in making wigs and the like
Heat-insulating bricks, blocks, tiles and other heat-insulating goods of siliceous fossil meals or of similar siliceous earths (for example, kieselguhr, tripolite or dia­ tomite )
Refractory bricks, blocks, tiles and similar refractory constructional goods, other than goods falling within heading No 69.01
Other refractory goods ( for example , retorts , crucibles , muffles , nozzles , plugs , sup­ ports, cupels, tubes, pipes, sheaths and rods), other than goods falling within head­ ing No 69.01
Building bricks (including flooring blocks, support or filler tiles and the like)
Roofing tiles; chimney-pots, cowls, chimney-liners, cornices and other construc­ tional goods, including architectural ornaments
Piping, conduits and guttering (including angles, bends and similar fittings)
Unglazed setts, flags and paving, hearth and wall tiles
Laboratory, chemical or industrial wares ; troughs, tubs and similar receptacles of a kind used in agriculture ; pots , jars and similar articles of a kind commonly used for the conveyance or packing of goods
Sinks, washbasins, bidets, water closet pans, urinals, baths and like sanitary fixtures
Tableware and other articles of a kind commonly used for domestic or toilet pur­ poses, of other kinds of pottery ;
A. Common pottery D. Other
Other articles
Glass in the mass (excluding optical glass)
Glass in balls, rods and tubes, unworked (not being optical glass)
Unworked cast or rolled glass (including flashed or wired glass), whether figured or not, in rectangles
Unworked drawn or blown glass (including flashed glass), in rectangles
Cast, rolled, drawn or blown glass (including flashed or wired glass), in rectangles, surface ground or polished, but not further worked
Cast, rolled, drawn or blown glass (including flashed or wired glass) cut to shape other than rectangular shape, or bent or otherwise worked (for example, edge worked or engraved), whether or not surface ground or polished; multiple-walled insulating glass ; leaded lights and the like
Safety glass consisting of toughened or laminated glass, shaped or not
Glass mirrors ( including rear-view mirrors ), unframed , framed or backed
Carboys, bottles, jars, pots, tubular containers and similar containers, of glass, of a kind commonly used for the conveyance or packing of goods ; stoppers and other closures, of glass
Glass envelopes (including bulbs and tubes) for electric lamps, electronic valves or the like
Glass inncrs for vacuum flasks or for other vacuum vesseb J
Illuminating glassware, signalling glassware and optical elements of glass, not opti­ cally worked nor of optical glass ;
A. Articles for electrical lighting fittings :
I. Facetted glass, plates, balls, pear-shaped drops, flower-shaped pieces, pen­ dants and similar articles for trimming chandeliers
Clock and watch glasses and similar glasses (including glass of a kind used for sunglasses but excluding glass suitable for corrective lenses), curved, bent, hol­ lowed and the like ; glass spheres and segments of spheres, of a kind used for the manufacture of clock and watch glasses and the like
Bricks, tiles, slabs, paving blocks, squares and other articles of pressed or moulded glass, of a kind commonly used in buildings; multi-cellular glass in blocks, slabs, plates, panels and similar forms
Laboratory, hygienic and pharmaceutical glassware, whether or not graduated or calibrated : glass ampoules
Optical glass and elements of optical glass, other than optically worked elements ; blanks for corrective spectacle lenses
Glass beads, imitation pearls, imitation precious and semi-precious stones, frag­ ments and chippings, and similar fancy or decorative glass smallwares, and articles of glassware made therefrom ; glass cubes and small glass plates , whether or not on a backing, for mosaics and similar decorative purposes; artificial eyes of glass, including those for toys but excluding those for wear by humans ; ornaments and other fancy articles of lampworked glass ; grains (ballotini )
Glass fibre (including wool), yarns, fabrics, and articles made therefrom Other articles of glass
Pearls, unworked or worked, but not mounted, set or strung (except ungraded pearls temporarily strung for convenience of transport)
Precious and semi-precious stones, unworked, cut or otherwise worked, but not mounted, set or strung (except ungraded stones temporarily strung for convenience of transport)
Synthetic or reconstructed precious or semi-precious stones, unworked, cut or otherwise worked, but not mounted, set or strung (except ungraded stones tempor­ arily strung for convenience of transport)
Silver, including silver gilt and platinum-plated silver, semi-manufactured
Rolled silver, unworked or semi-manufactured
Gold , including platinum-plated gold , semi-manufactured
Rolled gold on base metal or silver, unworked or semi-manufactured
Platinum and other metals of the platinum group, semi-manufactured
Rolled platinum or other platinum group metals, on base metal or precious metal, unworked or semi-manufactured
Articles of jewellery and parts thereof, of precious metal or rolled precious metal
Articles of goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares and parts thereof, of precious metal or rolled precious metal, other than goods falling within heading No 71.12
Other articles of precious metal or rolled precious metal
Articles consisting of, or incorporating, pearls, precious or semi-precious stones (natural, synthetic or reconstructed)
1 73.04 Shot and angular grit, of iron or steel, whether or not graded ; wire pellets of iron or steel
73.05 A Iron or steel powders
Blooms, billets, slabs and sheet bars (including tinplate bars), of iron or steel; pieces roughly shaped by forging, of iron or steel :
A. Blooms and billets : II . Forged
C. Pieces roughly shaped by forging
Sheets and plates , of iron or steel , hot-rolled or cold-rolled : B. Othersheetsandplates:
Railway and tramway track construction material of iron or steel, the following: rails, check-rails, switch blades, crossing (or frogs), crossing pieces, point rods, rack rails, sleepers, fish-plates, chairs, chair wedges, sole plates (base plates), rail clips, bedplates, ties and other material specialized for joining or fixing rails :
I. Current-conducting, with parts of non-ferrous metal
D. Fish-plates and sole plates : II. Other
E. Other
Tubes and pipes, of cast iron (*)
High-pressure hydro-electric conduits of steel, whether or not reinforced
Tube and pipe fittings (for example, joints, elbows, unions and flanges), of iron or steel (*)
Structures and parts of structures (for example, hangars and other buildings, bridges and bridge-sections, lock-gates, towers, lattice masts, roofs, roofing frame­ works, door and window frames, shutters, balustrades, pillars and columns), of iron or steel ; plates, strip, rods, angles, shapes, sections, tubes and the like, prepared for use in structures, of iron or steel
Not further worked than cold-rolled, of a thickness of: a) 3 mm or more
Clad, coated or otherwise surface-treated :
a) Silvered, gilded, platinum-plated or enamelled Otherwise shaped or worked :
a) Cut into shapes other than rectangular shapes, but not further worked : I. Silvered, gilded, platinum-plated or enamelled
b) Other,excludingsheetsandplatesshapedbyrolling
Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers, for any material (other than com­ pressed or liquefied gas), of iron or steel, of a capacity exceeding 300 litres, whether or not lined or heat-insulated, but not fitted with mechanical or thermal equipment
Casks, drums, cans, boxes and similar containers, of sheet or plate iron or steel, of a description commonly used for the conveyance or packing of goods
Containers , of iron or steel , for compressed or liquefied gas
Stranded wire, cables, cordage, ropes, plaited bands, slings and the like, of iron or steel wire, but excluding insulated electric cables
Barbed iron or steel wire; twisted hoop or single flat wire, barbed or not, and loosely twisted double wire, of kinds used for fencing, of iron or steel
Gauze, cloth, grill, netting, fencing, reinforcing fabric and similar materials, of iron or steel wire ; expanded metal , of iron or steel
Chain and parts thereof, of iron or steel
Anchors and grapnels and parts thereof, of iron or steel
Bolts and nuts (including bolt ends and screw studs), whether or not threaded or tapped, and screws (including screw hooks and screw rings), of iron or steel ; rivets, cotters, cotter-pins, washers and spring washers, of iron or steel, excluding screws for wood falling within subheading 73.32 ex B II
Needles for hand sewing (including embroidery), hand carpet needles and hand knitting needles, bodkins, crochet hooks, and the like, and embroidery stilettos, of iron or steel
Pins (excluding hatpins and other ornamental pins and drawing pins), hairpins and curling grips, of iron or steel
Springs and leaves for springs, of iron or steel
Stoves (including stoves with subsidiary boilers for central heating), ranges, cook­ ers, grates, fires and other space heaters, gas-rings, plate warmers with burners, wash boilers with grates or other heating elements, and similar equipment, of a kind used for domestic purposes, not electrically operated, and parts thereof, of iron or steel
Boilers (excluding boilers of heading No 84.01 ) and radiators, for central heating, not electrically heated, and parts thereof, of iron or steel ; air heaters and hot air distributors (including those which can al$o distribute cool or conditioned air), not electrically heated, incorporating a motor-driven fan or blower, and parts thereof, of iron or steel
Articles of a kind commonly used for domestic purposes, sanitary ware for indoor
use, and parts of such articles and ware, of iron or steel ; iron or steel wool ; pot scourers and scouring and polishing pads, gloves and the like, of iron or steel
Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections, of copper; copper wire (**)
Copper foil ( whether or not embossed , cut to shape , perforated , coated , printed , or backed with paper or other reinforcing material), of a thickness (excluding any backing ) not exceeding 0 - 15 mm
Copper powders and flakes
Tube and pipe fittings (for example, joints, elbows, sockets and flanges), of copper
Stranded wire, cables, cordage, ropes, plaited bands and the like, of copper wire, but excluding insulated electric wires and cables
Gauze, cloth, grill, netting, fencing, reinforcing fabric and similar materials (includ­ ing endless bands), of copper wire, expanded metal, of copper
Nails, tacks, staples, hook-nails, spiked cramps, studs, spikes and drawing pins, of copper, or of iron or steel with heads of copper ; bolts and nuts (including bolt ends and screw studs), whether or not threaded or tapped, and screws (including screw hooks and screw rings), of copper; rivets, cotters, cotter-pins, washers and spring washers, of copper
Cooking and heating apparatus of a kind used for domestic purposes, not electri­ cally operated , and parts thereof, of copper
Other articles of a kind commonly used for domestic purposes, sanitary ware for indoor use, and parts of such articles and ware, of copper
Other articles of copper
75.02 Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections, of nickel ; nickel wire
75.03 Wrought plates, sheets and strip, of nickel ; nickel foil ; nickel powders and flakes
75.04 Tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, of nickel ; hollow bars, and tube and pipe fit­ tings (for example, joints, elbows, sockets and flanges), of nickel
75.05 Electro-plating anodes, of nickel, wrought or unwrought, including those produced by electrolysis
75.06 Other articles of nickel
Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections of aluminium; aluminium wire (*)(**)
Wrought plates, sheets and strip, of aluminium (*) (**)
Aluminium foil (whether or not embossed, cut to shape, perforated, coated, printed, or backed with paper or other reinforcing material), of a thickness (excluding any backing) not exceding 0-20 mm
Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections, of magnesium ; magnesium wire ; wrought plates, sheets and strip, of magnesium; magnesium Toil; raspings and shavings of uniform size, powders and flakes, of magnesium ; tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, of magnesium ; hollow bars of magnesium ; other articles of magnesium
Beryllium, unwrought or wrought, and articles of beryllium
Aluminium powders and flakes
Tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, of aluminium ; hollow bars of aluminium
Tube and pipe fittings (for example, joints, elbows, sockets and flanges), of aluminium
Structures, and parts of structures (for example, hangars and other buildings,
bridges and bridge-sections, towers, lattice masts, roofs, roofing frameworks, door and window frames, balustrades, pillars and columns), of aluminium ; plates, rods, angles, shapes, sections, tubes and the like, prepared for use in structures, of aluminium
Reservoirs, tanks, vats and similar containers, for any material (other than com­ pressed or liquefied gas), of aluminium, of a capacity exceeding 300 litres, whether or not lined or heat-insulated, but not fitted with mechanical or thermal equipment
Casks , drums , cans , boxes and similar containers ( including rigid and collapsible tubular containers), of aluminium, of a description commonly used for the convey­ ance or packing of goods
Containers, of aluminium, for compressed or liquefied gas
Stranded wire, cables, cordage, ropes, plaited bands and the like, of aluminium wire, but excluding insulated electric wires and cables
Articles of a kind commonly used for domestic purposes, sanitary ware for indoor use, and parts of such articles and ware, of aluminium
Other articles of aluminium
78.02 Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections, of lead ; lead wire
78.03 Wrought plates, sheets and strip, of lead
78.04 Lead foil (whether or not embossed, cut to shape, perforated, coated, printed, or backed with paper or other reinforcing material ); of a weight (excluding any back­ ing) not exceeding 1 -7 kg/ m2 ; lead powders and flakes
78.05 Tubes and pipes and blanks, therefor, of lead; hollow bars, and tube and pipe fit­ tings (for example, joints, elbows, sockets, flanges and S-bends), of lead
78.06 Other articles of lead
79.02 Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections, of zinc ; zinc wire
79.03 Wrought plates, sheets and strip, of zinc ; zinc foil ; zinc powders and flakes : A. Plates, sheets, strip and foil (**)
79.04 Tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, of zinc ; hollow bars, and tube and pipe fit­ tings (for example, joints, elbows, sockets and flanges), of zinc
79.06 Other articles of zinc
Wrought bars, rods, angles, shapes and sections, of tin ; tin wire
Wrought plates, sheets and strip, of tin
Tin foil ( whether or not embossed , cut to shape , perforated , coated , printed or backed with paper or other reinforcing material), of a weight (excluding any back­ ing) not exceeding I kg/ m2 ; tin powders and flakes
Tubes and pipes and blanks therefor, of tin ; hollow bars, and tube and pipe fittings (for example, joints, elbows, sockets and flanges), of tin
Other articles of tin
Tungsten (wolfram), unwrought or wrought, and articles thereof:
B. Bars (other than bars further prepared than sintered), rods, angles, shapes, sections, wire, filaments, plates, sheets, strip and foil
C. Other
Molybdenum, unwrought or wrought, and articles thereof:
B. Bars (other than bars further prepared than sintered), rods, angles, shapes, sec­ tions, wire, filaments, plates, sheets, strip and foil
C. Other
Tantalum , unwrought or wrought , and articles thereof :
B. Bars (other than bars not further prepared than sintered), rods, angles, shapes, sections, wire, filaments, plates, sheets, strip and foil
C. Other
Other base metals, unwrought or wrought, and articles thereof; cermets, unwrought or wrought, and articles thereof:
A. Bismuth : II. Other
B. Cadmium : II. Other
C. Cobalt: II. Other
D. Chromium : i|. other
E. Germanium : II. Other
IJ. Antimony: II. Other
K. Titanium : II. Other
L. Vanadium : II. Other
N. Thorium : II. Other:
b) Other(Euratom)
O. Zirconium : II. Other
P. Rhenium : II. Other
R. Cermets : II. Other
Hand tools, the following: spades, shovels, picks, hoes, forks and rakes: axes, bill hooks and similar hewing tools: scythes, sickles, hay knives, grass shears, timber wedges and other tools of a kind used in agriculture, horticulture or forestry
Saws (non-mechanical) and blades for hand or machine saws (including toothless saw blades)
Hand tools, the following: pliers (including cutting pliers), pincers, tweezers, tin- men 's snips , bolt croppers and the like : perforating punches ; pipe cutters : spanners and wrenches (but not including tap wrenches): files and rasps
Interchangeable tools for hand tools, for machine tools or for power-operated hand tools (for example, for pressing, stamping, drilling, tapping, threading, boring, broaching, milling, cutting, turning, dressing, morticing or screw driving), including dies for wire drawing, extrusion dies for metal, and rock drilling bits
Knives and cutting blades, for machines or for mechanical appliances
Tool-tips and plates, sticks and the like for tool-tips, unmounted, of sintered metal carbides ( for example, carbides of tungsten, molybdenum or vanadium)
Coffee-mills, mincers, juice-extractors and other mechanical appliances, of a weight not exceeding 10 kg and of a kind used for domestic purposes in the preparation, serving or conditioning of food or drink
Knives with cutting blades, serrated or not (including pruning knives), other than knives falling within heading No 82.06, and blades therefor:
Razors and razor blades (including razor blade blanks, whether or not in strips) I
Scissors (including tailors' shears), and blades therefor
Other articles of cutlery (for example, secateurs, hair clippers, butchers' cleavers, paper knives): manicure and chiropody sets and appliances (including nail files)
Spoons, forks, fish-eaters, butter-knives, ladles and similar kitchen or tableware : B. Other
Handles of base metal for articles falling within heading No 82.09, 82.13 or 82.14
Base metal fittings and mountings of a kind suitable for furniture, doors, staircases, windows, blinds, coachwork, saddlery, trunks, caskets and the like (including auto­ matic door closers); base metal hayracks, hat-pegs, brackets and the like
Safes, strong-boxes, armoured or reinforced strong-rooms, strong-room linings and strong-room doors, and cash and deed boxes and the like, of base metal
Filing cabinets, racks, sorting boxes, paper trays, paper rests and similar office equipment, of base metal, other than office furniture falling within heading No 94.03
Fittings for loose-leaf binders, for files or for stationery books, of base metal ; letter clips, paper clips, staples, indexing tags, and similar stationery goods, of base metal
Statuettes and other ornaments of a kind used indoors, of base metal ; photograph, picture and similar frames, of base metal ; mirrors of base metal
Ump, and luring fittings, of b.« me«J.
electnc battery or magneto lamps and other «rt.tle» (all** w,th.n Chapter|
85 except heading No 85.22) . Flexible tubing and piping, of base metal
eves- evelets and the like. of base métal, oi a icina
^avel goodt handbags or other .«tile or leather goods: tubular nvets .nd cated rivets, of base metal ; beads and spangles, of base metal
Bells and gongs, non-electric, of base metal, and parts thereof of base metal
Stoppers, crown corks, bottle caps, capsules, bung covers, seals and plombs, case corner protectors and other packing accessories, of base metal
Sign-plates, name-plates, numbers, letters and other signs, of base metal
Wire, rods, tubes, plates, electrodes and similar products, of base metal or of metal carbides, coated or cored with flux material, of a kind used for soldering, brazing, welding or deposition of metal or of metal carbides; wire and rods, of agglomer­ ated base metal powder, used for metal spraying
Steam and other vapour generating boilers (excluding central heating hot water boilers capable also of producing low pressure steam ); super-heated water boilers
84.02 Auxiliary plant for use with boilers falling within heading No 84.01 (for example, economizers, superheaters, soot removers, gas recoverers and the like); condensers for vapour engines and power units
84.03 Producer gas and water gas generators, with or without purifiers; acetylene gas generators (water process) and similar gas generators, with or without purifiers
84.05 Steam or other vapour power units, whether or not incorporating boilers
84.07 Hydraulic engines and motors ( including water wheels and water turbines )
84.08 Other engines and motors
84.09 Mechanically propelled road rollers
84.10 Pumps (including motor pumps and turbo pumps) for liquids, whether or not fitted with measuring devices ; liquid elevators of bucket, chain, screw, band and similar kinds
Air pumps, vacuum pumps and air or gas compressors (including motor and turbo pumps and compressors, and free-piston generators for gas turbines); fans, blowers and the like, excluding pumps and compressors not for use in civil aircraft
84.12 Air conditioning machines , self-contained , comprising a motor-driven fan and ele­ ments for changing the temperature and humidity of air
84.13 Furnace burners for liquid fuel ( atomizers ), for pulverized solid fuel or for gas ; mechanical stokers, mechanical grates, mechanical ash dischargers and similar appliances
Industrial and laboratory furnaces and ovens, non-electric
Refrigerators and refrigerating equipment (electrical and other)
Calendering and similar rolling machines (other than metal-working and metal- rolling machines and glass-working machines) and cylinders therefor
Machinery, plant and similar laboratory equipment, whether or riot electrically heated, for the treatment of materials by a process involving a change of tempera­ ture such as heating, cooking, roasting, distilling, rectifying, sterilizing, pasteuriz­ ing, steaming, drying, evaporating, vapourizing, condensing or cooling, not being machinery or plant of a kind used for domestic purposes ; instantaneous or storage water heaters, non-electrical
Centrifuges filtering and purifying machinery and apparatus (other than filter funnels, milk strainers and the like), for liquids or gases
Machinery for cleaning or drying bottles or other containers ; machinery for filling, closing, sealing, capsuling or labelling bottles, cans, boxes, bags or other contain­ ers ; other packing or wrapping machinery ; machinery for aerating beverages ; dish washing machines
Weighing machinery (excluding balances of a sensitivity of 5 eg or better), includ­ ing weight-operated counting and checking machines; weighing machine weights
of all kinds
Mechanical appliances (whether or not hand operated) for projecting, dispersing or
spraying liquids or powders; fire extinguishers (charged or not); spray guns and
similar appliances; steam or sand blasting machines and similar jet projecting machines
Lifting, handling, loading or unloading machinery, telphers and conveyors (for example, lifts, hoists, winches, cranes, transporter cranes, jacks, pulley tackle, belt conveyors and teleferics), not being machinery falling within heading No 84.23
Excavating, levelling, tamping, boring and extracting machinery, stationary or mobile, for earth, minerals or ores (for example, mechanical shovels, coal-cutters, excavators, scrapers, levellers and bulldozers); pile-drivers; snow-ploughs, not self-propelled (including snow-plough attachments)
Agricultural and horticultural machinery for soil preparation or cultivation (for example, ploughs, harrows, cultivators, seed and fertilizer distributors); lawn and sports ground rollers
Harvesting and threshing machinery ; straw and fodder presses ; hay or grass mowers; winnowing and similar cleaning machines for seed, grain or leguminous vegetables and egg-grading and other grading machines for agricultural produce (other than those of a kind used in the bread grain milling industry falling within heading No 84.29)
Dairy machinery (including milking machines)
Presses, crushers and other machinery, of a kind used in wine-making, cider- making, fruit juice preparation or the like
Other agricultural , horticultural , poultry-keeping and bee-keeping machinery ;
germination plant fitted with mechanical or thermal equipment ; poultry incubators and brooders
Machinery of a kind used in the bread grain milling industry, and other machinery (other than farm type machinery) for the working of cereals or dried leguminous vegetables
Machinery, not falling within any other heading of this Chapter, of a kind used in the following food or drink industries: bakery, confectionery, chocolate manufac­ ture, macaroni, ravioli or similar cereal food manufacture, the preparation of meat, fish, fruit or vegetables (including mincing or slicing machines), sugar manufacture or brewing
Machinery for making or finishing cellulosic pulp, paper or paperboard Book-binding machinery, including book-sewing machines
Paper or paperboard cutting machines of all kinds ; other machinery for making up paper pulp, paper or paperboard
Machinery, apparatus and accessories for type-founding or type-setting: machin­ ery, other than the machine-tools of heading No 84.45, 84.46 or 84.47, for preparing or working printing blocks, plates, or cylinders ; printing type, impressed flongs and matrices printing blocks, plates and cylinders; blocks, plates, cylinders and litho­ graphic stones, prepared for printing purposes (for example, planed, grained or polished )
Other printing machinery ; machines for use ancillary to printing
Machines for extruding man-made textiles ; machines of a kind used for processing natural or man-made textile fibres ; textile spinning and twisting machines ; textile doubling, throwing and reeling (including weft-winding) machines
Weaving machines, knitting machines and machines for making gimped yarn, tulle, lace, embroidery, trimmings, braid or net; machines for preparing yams for use on such machines, including warping and warp sizing machines
Auxiliary machinery for use with machines of heading No 84.37 (for example, dob­ bies, jacquards, automatic stop motions and shuttle changing mechanisms); parts and accessories suitable for use solely or principally with the machines of the pre­ sent heading or with machines falling within heading No 84.36 or 84.37 (for exam­ ple, spindles and spindle flyers, card clothing, combs, extruding nipples, shuttles, healds and heald-lifters and hosiery needles)
Machinery for the manufacture or finishing of felt in the piece or in shapes, includ­ ing felt-hat making machines and hat-making blocks
Machinery for washing, cleaning, drying, bleaching, dyeing, dressing,-finishing or coating textile yarns, fabrics or made-up textile articles (including laundry and dry-cleaning machinery); fabric folding, reeling or cutting machines ; machines of a kind used in the manufacture of linoleum or other floor covering for applying the paste to the base fabric or other support ; machines of a type used for printing a repetitive design, repetitive words or overall colour on textiles, leather, wallpaper, wrapping paper, linoleum or other materials, and engraved or etched plates, blocks or rollers therefor
Sewing machines ; furniture specially designed for sewing machines ; sewing machine needles ;
A. Sewingmachines;furniturespeciallydesignedforsewingmachines:
I. Sewing machines (lock-stitch only), with heads of a weight not exceeding 16 kg without motor or 17 kg including the motor ; sewing machine heads (lock-stitch only), of a weight not exceeding 16 kg without motor or 17 kg
including the motor;
a) Sewing machines having a value (not including frames, tables or furni­ ture) of more than 65 ECU each
Machinery (other than sewing machines) for preparing, tanning or working hides, skins or leather (including boot and shoe machinery) -
Converters, ladles, ingot moulds and casting machines, of a kind used in metal­ lurgy and in metal foundries
Rolling mills and rolls therefor
Machine-tools for working metal or metal carbides, not being machines falling within heading No 84.49 or 84.50
Machine-tools for working stone, ceramics, concrete, asbestos-cement and like mineral materials or for working glass in the cold, other than machines falling within heading No 84.49
Machine-tools for working wood, cork, bone, ebonite (vulcanite), hard artificial plastic materials or other hard carving materials, other than machines falling within heading No 84.49
Accessories and parts suitable for use solely or principally with the machines fall­ ing within heading Nos 84.45 to 84.47, including work and tool holders, self- opening dieheads, dividing heads and other appliances for machine-tools; tool holders for any type of tool or machine-tool for working in the hand
Tools for working in the hand, pneumatic or with self-contained non-electric motor Gas-operated welding, brazing, cutting and surface tempering appliances
Typewriters, other than typewriters incorporating calculating mechanisms; cheque- writing machines
Automatic data-processing machines and units thereof; magnetic or optical read­ ers, machines for transcribing data on to data media in coded form and machines for processing such data, not elsewhere specified or included
Other office machines (for example, hectograph or stencil duplicating machines, addressing machines, coin-sorting machines, coin-counting and wrapping machines, pencil-sharpening machines, perforating and stapling machines)
Parts and accessories (other than covers, carrying cases and the like) suitable for use solely or principally with machines of a kind falling within heading No 84.51 , 84.52, 84.53 or 84.54
Machinery for sorting, screening, separating, washing, crushing, grinding or mixing earth, stone, ores or other mineral substances, in solid (including powder and paste) form; machinery for agglomerating, moulding or shaping solid mineral fuels, ceramic paste, unhardened cements, plastering materials or other mineral products in powder or paste form ; machines for forming foundry moulds of sand
Glass-working machines (other than machines for working glass in the cold); machines for assembling electric filament and discharge lamps and electronic and similar tubes and valves
Automatic vending machines (for example, stamp, cigarette, chocolate and food machines), not being games of skill or chance
Machines and mechanical appliances, having individual functions, not falling within any other heading of this Chapter ;
A. For the manufacture of the products mentioned in subheading 28.51 A (Eura­ tom )
C. Specially designed for the recycling of irradiated nuclear fuels (for example, sin­ tering of radioactive metal oxides, sheathing) (Euratom)
D. Rope or cable-making machinery, including electric wire and cable-making machines
E. Other
Moulding boxes for metal foundry ; moulds of a type used for metal (other than ingot moulds), for metal carbides, for glass, for mineral materials (for example, ceramic pastes, concrete or cement) or for rubber or artificial plastic materials
Taps, cocks, valves and similar appliances, for pipes, boiler shells, tanks, vats and the like, including pressure-reducing valves and thermostatically controlled valves
Transmission shafts, cranks, bearing housings, plain shaft bearings, gears and gear­ ing (including friction gears and gearboxes and other variable speed gears), fly­ wheels, pulleys and pulley blocks, clutches and shaft couplings, but not including forged or roughly shaped shafts, of a weight exceeding 150 tonnes, for generators or turbines
Gaskets and similar joints of metal sheeting combined with other material (for example, asbestos, felt and paperboard) or of laminated metal foil ; sets or assort­ ments of gaskets and similar joints, dissimilar in composition, for engines, pipes, tubes and the like, put up in pouches, envelopes or similar packings
Machinery parts, not containing electrical connectors, insulators, coils, contacts or other electrical features and not falling within any other heading in this Chapter
Electrical goods of the following descriptions: generators, motors, converters (rotary or static), transformers, rectifiers and rectifying apparatus ; inductors :
B. Other:
I. Generators, motors (whether or not equipped with speed reducing, changing or step-up gear) and rotary converters:
a) Synchronous motors of an output of not more than 18 watts
Electro-magnets ; permanent magnets and articles of special materials for perma­ nent magnets , being blanks of such magnets ; electro-magnetic and permanent mag­ net chucks, clamps, vices and similar work holders; electro-magnetic clutches and couplings ; electro-magnetic brakes ; electro-magnetic lifting heads
Tools for working in the hand, with self-contained electric motor Electro-mechanical domestic appliances, with self-contained electric motor
Shavers and hair clippers, with self-contained electric motor
Electrical starting and ignition equipment for internal combustion engines (includ­ ing ignition magnetos, magneto-dynamos, ignition coils, starter motors, sparking plugs and glow plugs): generators (dynamos and alternators) and cut-outs for use in conjunction with such engines
Electrical lighting and signalling equipment and electrical windscreen wipers, defrosters and demisters, for cycles or motor vehicles
Portable electric battery and magneto lamps, other than lamps falling within heading No 85.09 :
Industrial and laboratory electric furnaces, ovens and inductions and dielectric heating equipment ; electric or laser-operated welding, brazing, soldering or cutting machines and apparatus
Electric instantaneous or storage water heaters and immersion heaters ; electric soil heating apparatus and electric^pace heating apparatus; electric hairdressing appli­ ances (for example, hair dryers, hair curlers, curling tong heaters) and electric smoothing irons; electro-thermic domestic appliances; electric heating resistors, other than those of carbon
Electrical line telephonic and telegraphic apparatus (including such apparatus for camer-current line systems)
Microphones and stands therefor; loudspeakers; . audio-frequency electric amplifiers
Radiotelegraphic and radiotelephonic transmission and reception apparatus; radio-broadcasting and television transmission and reception apparatus (including receivers incorporating sound recorders or reproducers) and television cameras; radio navigational aid apparatus, radar apparatus and radio remote control apparatus :
A. Radiotelegraphic and radiotelephonic transmission and reception apparatus; radio-broadcasting and television transmission and reception apparatus (includ­ ing receivers incorporating sound recorders or reproducers) and television cameras;
II . Transmitter-receivers IV. Television cameras
B. Otherapparatus II. Other
C. PartsofthegoodsofsubheadingsAandBabove: II. Other:
a) Cabinets and cases
b) Parts of base metal, obtained by turning bars, angles, shapes, sections or wire, of solid section, the greatest diameter of which does not exceed 25 mm
Electric traffic control equipment for railways, roads or inland waterways and equipment used for similar purposes in port installations or upon airfields
Electric sound or visual signalling apparatus (such as bells, sirens, indicator panels, burglar and fire alarms), other than those of heading No 85.09 or 85. 16
Electrical apparatus for making and breaking electrical circuits, for the protection of electrical circuits, or for making connections to or in electrical circuits (for exam­ ple, switches, relays, fuses, lightning arresters, surge suppressors, plugs, landhold­ ers and junction boxes); resistors, fixed or variable (including potentiometers), other than heating resistors; printed circuits; switchboards (other than telephone switchboards ) and control panels
Electric filament lamps and electric discharge lamps (including infra-red and ultra­ violet lamps); arc-lamps:
Electrical appliances and apparatus, having individual functions, not falling within any other heading of this Chapter
Carbon brushes, arc-lamp carbons, battery carbons, carbon electrodes and other carbon articles of a kind used for electrical purposes
Insulators of any material
Insulating fittings for electrical machines, appliances or equipment, being fittings wholly of insulating material apart from any minor components of metal incorpor­ ated during moulding solely for purposes of assembly, but not including insulators falling within heading No 85.25
Electrical conduit tubing and joints therefor, of base metal lined with insulating material
Electrical parts of machinery and apparatus, not being goods falling within any of the preceding headings of this Chapter
Tractors (other than those falling within heading No 87.07), whether or not fitted with power take-offs, winches or pulleys
Motor vehicles for the transport of persons, goods or materials (including sports motor vehicles, other than those falling within heading No 87.09)
Special purpose motor lorries and vans (such as breakdown lorries, fire-engines, fire-escapes, road sweeper lorries, snow-ploughs, spraying lorries, crane lorries, searchlight lorries, mobile workshops and mobile radiological units), but not including the motor vehicles falling within heading No 87.02)
Chassis fitted with engines, for the motor vehicles falling within heading No 87.01 , 87.02 or 87.03
Bodies (including cabs) for the motor vehicles falling within heading No 87.01, 87.02 or 87.03
Parts and accessories of the motor vehicles falling within heading No 87.01 , 87.02 or 87.03
Works trucks, mechanically propelled, of the type used in factories, warehouses, dock areas or airports for short distance transport or handling of goods (for exam­ ple, platform trucks, fork-lift trucks and straddle carriers); tractors of the type used on railway station platforms : parts of the foregoing, vehicles
Tanks and other armoured fighting vehicles, motorized, whether or not fitted with weapons, and parts of such vehicles
Motor-cycles, auto-cycles and cycles fitted with an auxiliary motor, with or without side-cars : side-cars of all kinds .
Cycles (including delivery bicycles), not motorized (♦)
Invalid carriages, whether or not motorized or otherwise mechanically propelled
Parts and accessories of articles falling within heading No87.09, 87.10 or 87.11
Baby carriages and parts thereof
Other vehicles (including trailers), not mechanically propelled, and parts thereof
Lenses, prisms, mirrors and other optical elements, of any material, unmounted, other than such elements of glass not optically worked : sheets or plates, of polariz­ ing material
Lenses, prisms, mirrors and other optical elements of any material, mounted, being parts of .or fittings for instruments or apparatus , other than such elements of glass not optically worked
Frames and mountings, and parts thereof, for spectacles, pince-nez, lorgnettes, goggles and the like
Spectacles, pince-nez, lorgnettes, goggles and the like, corrective, protective or other
Astronomical instruments (for example, reflecting telescopes, transit instruments and equatorial telescopes), and mountings therefor, but not including instruments for radio-astronomy
Photographic cameras : photographic flashlight apparatus and flashbulbs other than discharge lamps of heading No 85.20
Cinematographic cameras , projectors , sound recorders and sound reproducers but not including re-recorders or film editing apparatus; any combination of these articles
Apparatus and equipment of a kind used in photographic or cinematographic laboratories, not falling within any other heading in this Chapter; photocopying apparatus (whether incorporating an optical system or of the contact type) and thermocopying apparatus ; screens for projectors
Microscopes and diffraction apparatus, electron and proton
Compound optical microscopes, whether or not provided with means for photo­ graphing or projecting the image
Optical appliances and instruments (but not including lighting appliances other than searchlights or spotlights), not falling within any other heading of this Chap­ ter : lasers , other than laser diodes
Surveying (including photogrammetrical surveying), hydrographic, navigational, meteorological , hydrological and geophysical instruments ; compasses ; range­ finders
Balances of a sensitivity of 5 eg or better, with or without their weights
Drawing , marking-out and mathematical calculating instruments , drafting machines, pantographs, slide rules, disc calculators and the like; measuring or checking instruments, appliances and machines, not falling within any other head­ ing of this Chapter (for example, micrometers, callipers, gauges, measuring rods, balancing machines); profile projectors
Medical, dental, surgical and veterinary instruments and appliances (including electromedical apparatus and ophthalmic instruments)
Mechanotherapy appliances: massage apparatus: psychological aptitude-testing apparatus: artificial respiration, ozone therapy, oxygen therapy, aerosol therapy or similar apparatus : breathing appliances (including gas masks and similar respirators)
Orthopaedic appliances , surgical belts , trusses and the like ; splints and other frac­ ture appliances: artificial limbs, eyes, teeth and other artificial parts of the body; hearing-aids and other appliances which are worn or carried, or implanted in the body, to compensate for a defect or disability
Apparatus based on the use of X-rays or of the radiations from radioactive sub­ stances (including radiography and radiotherapy apparatus); X-ray generators; X-ray tubes; X-ray screens; X-ray high tension generators; X-ray control panels and desks ; X-ray examination or treatment tables , chairs and the like
Instruments, apparatus or models, designed solely for demonstrational purposes (for example, in education or exhibition), unsuitable for other uses
Machines and appliances for testing mechanically the hardness, strength, compres­ sibility, elasticity and the like properties of industrial materials (for example, metals, wood, textiles, paper or plastics)
Hydrometers and similar instruments; thermometers, pyrometers, barometers, hy­ grometers, psychrometers, recording or not ; any combination of these instruments
Instruments and apparatus for measuring, checking or automatically controlling the flow, depth, pressure or other variables of liquids or gases, or for automatically controlling temperature (for example, .pressure gauges, thermostats, level gauges, flow meters, heat meters, automatic oven-draught regulators), not being articles falling within heading No 90.14
Instruments and apparatus for physical or chemical analysis (such as polanmeters, refractometers, spectrometers, gas analysis apparatus), instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking viscosity, porosity, expansion, surface tension or the like (such as viscometers, porosimeters, expansion meters): instruments and apparatus for measuring or checking quantities of heat, light or sound (such as photometers (including exposure meters), calorimeters); microtomes
Gas, liquid and electricity supply or production meters; calibrating meters therefor
Revolution counters, production counters, taximeters, mileometers, pedometers, and the like, speed indicators (including magnetic speed indicators) and tacho­ meters (other than articles falling within heading No 90.14); stroboscopes
Electrical measuring, checking, analyzing or automatically controlling instruments and apparatus
Parts or accessories suitable for use solely or principally with one or more of the articles falling within heading No 90.23, 90.24, 90.26, 90.27 or 90.28
Pianos (including automatic pianos, whether or not with keyboards): harpsichords and other keyboard stringed instruments ; harps but not including aeolian harps
Other string musical instruments
Pipe and reed organs, including harmoniums and the like
Accordions , concertinas and similar musical instruments ; mouth organs Other wind musical instruments
Percussion musical instruments (for example, drums, xylophones, cymbals, casta­ nets )
Electro-magnetic, electrostatic, electronic and similar musical instruments (for example, pianos, organs, accordions)
Musical instruments not falling within any other heading of this Chapter (for exam­ ple, fairground organs, mechanical street organs, musical boxes, musical saws); mechanical singing birds ; decoy calls and effects of all kinds ; mouthblown sound- signalling instruments (for example, whistles and boatswains' pipes)
Parts and accessories of musical instruments, including perforated music rolls and mechanisms for musical boxes; metronomes, tuning forks and pitch pipes of all kinds
Gramophones, dictating machines and other sound recorders or reproducers, including record-players and tape decks, with or without sound-heads; television image and sound recorders or reproducers :
B. Television image and sound recorders or reproducers
Other parts and accessories of apparatus falling within heading No 92.11
Pocket-watches, wrist-watches, and other watches, including stop-watches, exclud­ ing quartz watches
Instrument panel clocks and clocks of a similar type, for vehicles, aircraft or vessels
Time of day recording apparatus; apparatus with clock or watch movement (including secondary movement) or with synchronous motor, for measuring, recording or otherwise indicating intervals of time
Time switches with clock or watch movement (including secondary movement) or with synchronous motor
Clock cases and cases of a similar type for other goods of this Chapter, and parts thereof
Chairs and other seats (other than those falling within heading No 94.02), whether or not convertible into beds, and parts thereof:
B. Other:
I Specially designed for aircraft
Medical, dental, surgical or veterinary furniture (for example, operating tables, hos­ pital beds with mechanical fittings); dentists' and similar chairs with mechanical elevating, rotating or reclining movements ; parts of the foregoing articles
Mattress supports ; articles of bedding or similar furnishing fitted with springs or stuffed or internally fitted with any material or of expanded, foam or sponge rubber or expanded, foam or sponge artificial plastic material, whether or not covered (for example, mattresses, quilts, eiderdowns, cushions, pouffes and pillows)
Wheeled toys designed to be ridden by children (for example, toy bicycles and tri­ cycles and pedal motorcars); dolls' prams and dolls' pushchairs
Appliances, apparatus, accessories and requisites for gymnastics or athletics, or for sports and outdoor games (other than articles falling within heading No 97.04)
Fish-hooks, line fishing rods and tackle; fish landing nets and butterfly nets; decoy 'birds', lark mirrors and similar hunting or shooting requisites
Roundabouts, swings, shooting galleries and other fairground amusements; travel­ ling circuses, travelling menageries and travelling theatres
Buttons and button moulds, studs, cuff-links, and press-fasteners, including snap- fasteners and press-studs ; blanks and parts of such articles
Slide fasteners and parts thereof
Fountain pens, stylograph pens and pencils (including ballpoint pens and pencils and other pens), pen-holders, pencil-holders and similar holders, propelling pencils and sliding pencils ; parts and fittings thereof, other than those falling within head­ ing No 98.04 or 98.05
Pen nibs and nib points
Pencils (other than pencils of heading No 98.03), pencil leads, slate pencils, crayons and pastels, drawing charcoals and writing and drawing chalks; tailors' and billiard chalks
' Slates and boards, with writing or drawing surfaces, whether framed or not
Date, sealing or numbering stamps, and the like (including devices for printing or embossing labels), designed for operating in the hand; hand-operated composing sticks and hand printing sets incorporating such composing sticks
Typewriter and similar ribbons , whether or not on spools ; ink-pads with or without boxes
Sealing wax (including bottle-sealing wax) in sticks, cakes or similar forms; copy­ ing pastes with a basis of gelatin, whether or not with a paper or textile backing
Mechanical lighters and similar lighters, including chemical and electrical lighters, and parts thereof, excluding flints and wicks
Smoking pipes; pipe bowls,--stems and other parts of smoking pipes (including roughly shaped blocks of wood or root); cigar and cigarette holders and parts thereof
Combs, hair-slides and the like
Scent and similar sprays of a kind used for toilet purposes, and mounts and heads therefor
Tailors' dummies and other lay figures ; automata and other animated displays of a kind used for shop window dressing
451 Antigua and Barbuda 528 Argentina
306 Central African Republic (2) 244 Chad (2)
456 Dominican Republic
List of developing countries and territories enjoying generalized tariff preferences (') I. INDEPENDENT COUNTRIES
Republic of Cape Verde (2) Romania
Sao Tome and Principe (2) Saudi Arabia
Seychelles and dependencies (2) Sierra Leone
(') The code number preceding the name of each beneficiary country or territory is that given in 'Geonomenclature 1980 (Regulation (EEC) No 2566/79 – OJ No L 294, 21.11.1979, p. 5).
(2) This country is also included in Annex D.
dependent or administered, or lor whose external relations Member States of the Community or third countries are wholly or partly responsible
802 Australian Oceania (Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Heard Island and McDonald Islands, Norfolk Island)
357 British Indian Ocean Territory 703 Brunei
529 Falkland Islands and dependencies
476 Netherlands Antilles
809 New Caledonia and dependencies
814 New Zealand Oceania (Tokelau and Niue Islands ; Cook Islands)
890 Polar regions (French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Australian Antarctic Territories,
British Antarctic Territories) 329 St Helena and dependencies 454 Turks and Caicos Islands
457 Virgin Islands of the United States 811 Wallis and Futuna Islands
Note: The above lists may be amended subsequently to take account of changes in the inter­ national status of countries or territories.
(') American Oceania includes: Guam, American Samoa (including Swain's Island), Midway Islands, Johnston and Sand Islands, Wake Island and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (the Caroline, Marianas and Marshall Islands)
306 Central African Republic 244 Chad
31 1 Sao Tome and Principe
355 Seychelles and dependencies 342 Somalia ,
List of least-developed developing countries
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No
applying generalized tariff preferences for 1983 to textile products originating in developing countries
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the Euro­ pean Economic Community ,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commis­ sion ('),
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (2),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (3), .
Whereas in accordance with its offer made within
the context of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development (UNCTAD) the European
Economic Community opened generalized tariff
preferences , commencing in 1971 , with particular reference to finished and semi-finished industrial
products from developing countries; whereas the initial 10-year period of application of this system of preferences ended on 31 December 1980;
Whereas the positive role played by this system in improving access for developing countries to the markets of the preference-giving countries was recognized at the ninth session of the UNCTAD Special Committee on Preferences: whereas it was there agreed that the objectives of the generalized preferences system would not be fully attained by the end of 1980, that it should consequently be pro­ longed beyond the initial period and that an overall review of the system should take place in 1990 ;
Whereas the Community has therefore decided to apply generalized tariff preferences, in the context of the conclusions agreed in UNCTAD in accord­ ance with the intention expressed in the said Com­ mittee, in particular by all the preference-giving countries ;
Whereas the temporary and non-binding nature of the system means that the offer can be withdrawn wholly or in part at a later date, thus maintaining the possibility of remedying any unfavourable situa­ tions which might arise in the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) as a result of the system 's implementation ;
Whereas, however, most of the preference-giving countries exclude textile products from preferential treatment; whereas, under the Community scheme of generalized preferences , these products have always been covered by special arrangements pursuant to which, for cotton textile and similar products, the preferences were originally granted in the form of duty-free ceilings only to those benefi­ ciaries under the generalized preferences scheme which were signatories to the Long-Term Arrange­ ment regarding International Trade in Cotton Tex­ tiles (LTA) or which undertook vis-a-vis the Com­ munity commitments similar to those existing under that Arrangement ;
Whereas the Long-Term Arrangement has been replaced from 1980 onwards by the Arrangement regarding International Trade in Textiles (MFA), and the Community has therefore, in the case of products covered by the MFA, reserved preferences in the form of duty-free ceilings, for products origin­ ating in those countries or territories which signed Bilateral Agreements, in the framework of the MFA, providing for quantitative limitation of.their exports of certain textile products to the Community, or in those countries which undertook similar commit­ ments vis-a-vis the Community; whereas, such
commitments have been undertaken by Bolivia and Ecuador ; whereas , for
these products , it is therefore
desirable that the Community should continue to apply the generalized
tariff preferences on the basis of
the same principles until the expiry
of the MFA and the Bilateral Agreements concluded with certain supplier countries ; whereas, in view of the special nature which trade in
the products concerned may have, it would appear
that the volumes of preferential imports should be , determined in terms of tonnes, pieces, or pairs, as appropriate, by reference to the categories into which products are divided and to a uniform per­ centage, for each of the categories, of total imports into the Community in 1977; whereas, in order to ensure that each of the countries or territories referred to above has access to the preferential vol­ umes, separate tariff ceilings for each beneficiary,
 whether or not allocated among the Member States, should be specified for each category of products ;
Whereas for products not covered by the MFA it
would appear possible to grant the preferences to I the countries or territories which are normally bene- i ficiaries in the other industrial sectors ;
Whereas, for jute and coir products, it was under-' stood that the preferences would be granted only where special arrangements had been made with the exporting developing countries ; whereas these arrangements have hitherto concerned India and Sri Lanka for coir products, and India and Thailand for jute products; whereas, it would appear desirable to extend the preferential advantage to the least- developed countries in respect ofjute and coir;
Whereas, in respect of textile products, taking account of the renewal of the MFA and the conclu - . sion of Bilateral Agreements with certain supplier countries or territories, a substantial improvement in the arrangements was noted in 1980; whereas such substantial improvement was only made possible by ensuring that the improvement continued to be compatible with the situation in the Community sector concerned and by ensuring that a better balance was achieved in the distribution of the advantages granted to the beneficiary countries or j territories ; whereas for the 1983 prefe­
rential exercise, further improvement can only be envisaged if new Bilateral Agreements for quantitative self- limitation are concluded with the supplier beneficiary countries concer­ ned; whereas this improvement amounts j to an increase of about 5% over the volumes opened in 1982;
Agreement between the European Economic Com­ munity and the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia^); whereas,coniat^utjvHyyugoslavia is included in the list of beneficiary countries within the framework of the Joint Declaration on Protocol 1 and Articles 8, 9 and 10 ;
Whereas, from 1 January 1981, the Hellenic Republic has applied the Community scheme of generalized preferences, in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of Accession of 1979 ;
Whereas, for the products covered by the MFA, it would seem appropriate to apply a certain uniform percentage to the data concerning total imports by the beneficiaries into the Community in 1977, by category of products, in order that the zero-duty pre­ ferential volume to which they are entitled may be determined ;
Whereas, for the products not covered by the MFA, the objectives referred to above may be achieved by providing, in respect of each category of products, for tariff ceilings, whether or not allocated among the Member States (but uifck t"i\di*w\ J u-oQ
ceilings for each beneficiary), set at a level cor­ responding in general to Q.& % of the total volume of imports into the Community in 19 SI?of the cate­ gory of products in question from all beneficiaries ;
Whereas, in the multilateral trade negotiations, in accordance with paragraph 6 of the Tokyo Declara­ tion, the Community reaffirmed that special treat­ ment should be granted, wherever this is possible, to the least-developed developing countries appearing on the list in Annex E ;
Whereas the benefit of such preferential tariff treat­ ment should be reserved for products originating in the countries or territories under consideration, the
concept of 'originating products' being determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in
Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 802/68 of 27 June 1968 on the common definition of the
concept of origin of goods ( ' );
Whereas the Community preference arrangements applicable to Yugoslavia for textile products result exclusively from the provisions of the Interim
– in respect of each of the categories of products covered by the MFA which are listed in Annex A,' separate Community tariff ceilings for each beneficiary, whether or
not allocated among the Member States, at a zero rate of duty within the limits of the quanti­
ties specified for each of the countries or territo­
ries of origin in column 6 o<" "? <s|" A*- fW^y
– in respect of each of the categories of products not covered by the MFA, originating in the
Whereas -cpû'À:'
/Communityshould
countries and territories listed in Annex Community tariff ceilings at a zero rate of duty, whether or not allocated among the Member States but separate ceil­ ings for each beneficiary, within the limits of the quantities specified in column £ or 7 ^
 in respect of the manufactured jute and coir products listed in Annex Ct . XL total suspen­ sion of customs duties for the beneficiary coun­ tries specified in column 3 against each of the categories of products shown in column 2 ;
Whereas, as regards the Community tariff ceilings ©Lto caAeJl SteUcS ?
– it is necessary to guarantee to all importers equal and continuous access to the abovemen- tioned ceilings and uninterrupted application of the rates laid down for those ceilings to all imports of the products concerned into all Member States until the ceilings have been used up,
having regard to the abovementioned principles, it would appear that the Community nature of the ceilings can be respected by allocating them among the Member States,
the actual charges against the ceilings may relate only to goods which are entered for free circulation and are accompanied by a certificate of origin .
it would be advisable at this stage to adopt a fixed scale for allocating the ceilings concerned among the Member States ; whereas , using as a basis general economic criteria relating to exter­ nal trade in textiles, and in particular to the trend of textile imports into the Community in recent years, the percentages for the Member States' initial shares of the Community ceilings are as follows for the year under consideration :
the objectives sought may be achieved by applying a method of administration based on the charging, at
v - as and when these products are entered for free circulation and are accompanied by a certificate of origin ; whereas this method of administration must make provision for the reintroduction of the levying of customs duties as soon as the said ceilings ,
are reached at Community level ;
Whereas the methods of administration for the products listed in Annexes A 6 call for
close and particularly rapid cooperation between Member States and the Commission, which must, in particular, be able to keep under observation the extent to which charges are made against the ceil­ ings , whether or not allocated ,
and inform Member States thereof;
whereas such cooperation should be particularly close in view of the need for the Commission to be
able to take appropriate measures to reintroduce customs duties either generally or in a particular case when any of the ceilings
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the King­ dom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united within and jointly repre­ sented by the Benelux Economic Union, any mea­ sure concerning the administration of the shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any one of its members,
Italy 15% United Kingdom 23%
– without affecting the Community nature of the ceilings, it appears possible to provide at this stage for a utilization scheme based on a single allocation among the Member States ; whereas, at the present juncture, it appears feasible that such allocation could , in general , be made according to the percentages set out in the table above; whereas, within the framework of the national shares, the levying of normal customs duties is reintroduced as soon as possible when the level of each share is reached,
– the method of administration of the ceilings must make provision for the immediate rein­ troduction of the levying of customs duties as soon as the said ceilings
^-are reached at
Community level ;
Whereas, as regards the Community tariff ceilings cTVwA. OJTCL. Aa-
1. From 1 January to 31 December 1983, the Com­ mon Customs Tariff duties shall be :
totally suspended in respect of the jute and coir products listed in Annex C,
– totally suspended within the framework of Community tariff ceilings, whether or not allo­ cated among the Member States, in respect of the products listed in Annexes A . and 6-
Imports into Greece of the products referred to above shall be subject to the customs duties estab­ lished in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of Accession of 1979.
2. The arrangements laid down in paragraph 1 shall apply only in respect of products originating in the countries and territories :
– specified individually in column 5 of
Provisions concerning the administration of the Communitytariffceilings/let eS&rca&eA
Annex A or \lVtel v
As soon as the individual ceilings determined in accordance with Article
2 are reached at the Community level,
the levying of customs duties on imports of the products in question originating in each of the countries or territories concerned may at any time be reintroduced
until the end of the period referred to in Article 1(1 ).
– listed in Annex I>, as regards the products listed inAnnexif^
– listed in column 3 of Annex C against each of the categories of products specified in column 2.
3. Those imports already enjoying exemption from customs duties under other preferential tariff arrangements granted by the Community shall not be charged against the tariff ceilings referred to in paragraph 1. Preferential entry as provided for in this Regulation shall be subject to conformity with the concept of 'originating products', as determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 802/68. How­ ever, the Community preference arrangements applicable in respect of Yugoslavia shall derive
exclusively from the provisions of the Interim Agreement between the Community and Yugoslavia .
4. With regard to carpets, carpeting and rugs of wool or fine animal hair falling within heading No 58.01 of the Common Customs Tariff, the certi­ ficates of origin for these products shall state the number of knots per metre of warp.
5. The ceilings shall be administered in accordance with the following provisions.
Subject to Articles 3 and 4, preferential tariff
treatment shall, be a£cprdedj/or each category of products subjecte(j Annexes A and B to individual ceilings not allocated among the Member States and within the limits of the quantities specified in column 7 of Annexes A and B respec­ tively, to certain or each of the countries or territories of origin listed in column 5 of those Annexes .
The Commission shall reintroduce, by means of a Regulation, the levying of customs duties in respect of any one of the countries and territories referred to in Article 1 (2), under the conditions laid down in Article 3.
Provisions concerning the .
administration^ the Community tariff ceilings
The total suspension of customs duties within the framework of the Community tariff ceilings allo­ cated among the Member States, referred to in Article 1 ( 1 ), concerns the categories of products in Annexes A and B, for each of which the volume of the ceiling is specified uji uk.
column 6 of those Annexes with regard to certain beneficiary countries or territories of origin listed in
volumes indicated in column 6 of Annexes ft 8 rounding up the result to the '
next higher unit (kilogram, piece or pair) if neces­ sary .
3. Without prejudice to the provisions of Article 8, within the framework of the national shares, the levy­ ing of normal customs duties shall be reintroduced as soon as possible when the level of each share is reached .
Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that importers of the products concerned have free access to the
shares allocated to them .
The Commission shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the Community tariff ceilings cJlStrcoi
column 5 of
the same
1. The î
in accordance with the following scale :
The provisions concerning reintroduction of the levy­ ing of normal customs duties shall not apply to the countries listed in Annex
2. Each Member State shall determine its own share by applying the appropriate percentage to the
the Commission shall immediately notify the Mem- ber States of the date on which, as a result of this fact, the normal tariff is to be reintroduced in res- pect of the country or territory or the countries or territories in question. This notification shall be published in the Official Journal of the European
observed. When the charges, at Community level, of
products originating M. and* ^
or territories listed in column 5 of Annexes A or B against any of these ceilings reach the corresponding amount specified in column 6 of the above-mentioned Annexes,
. are
I. Imports of the products in question shall be charged against the national shares and the Com­ munity ceilings as and when the products are entered for tree circulation and are accompanied by a certificate of origin pur­ suant to the rules referred to in Article 1 (3).
2. Goods may be charged against a ceiling
or admitted under a national
share only if the certificate of origin referred to in paragraph 1 is presented before the date on which the levying of duties is reintroduced .
3. The extent to which the ceilings
have been used up shall be determined at
Community level on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2.
Where the Commission so requests, and in any case at least monthly, Member States shall inform it of imports of the products concerned actually charged against theic' shares Of <I<MW t
Moreover, the Member States shall forward this information every quarter to the Statistical Office of the European Communities in accordance with the provisions of the nomenclature of goods for external trade statistics of the Community and statistics of trade between Member States (NIMEXE).
The Member States . and the Commission shall cooperate closely to ensure compliance with this Regulation .
4. Any amendment to the list of beneficiaries, in
particular by the addition of new countries or terri­
tories, may entail a corresponding adjustment to the
volume of the Community ceilings or maximum
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January
For the Council The President
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
(a) Notwithstanding the rules for the interpretation of the Common Customs Tariff, the wording for the designation of the products is to be considered as having no more than an indicative value, the preferential scheme being determined by the application of the numbers in the N1M EXE.
(b) The-admission of postal consignments to the benefit of the preferential scheme is subject to the particular NIMEXE code relating to the products concerned being indicated.
List of MFA textile products subject to Community tariff ceilings allocated or not allocated among Member States within the generalized tariff preferences in favour of certain developing countries and
Beneficiary countries or territories
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Other cotton :
Woven fabrics of cotton , other than gauze, terry fabrics, narrow woven fabrics , pile fabrics , chenille fabrics , tulle and other net fabrics :
– Unbleached or bleached
Beneficiary countries or terriiories
Allocated among not allocated Member States among Member
Other
than
Woven fabrics of man- made fibres (discontinuous or waste);
Beneficiary territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Woven fabrics of syn- thetic fibres (discontinu- ous or waste) other than narrow woven fab- rics, pile fabrics (includ- ing terry fabrics) and chenille fabrics :
– Unbleached or bleached
– Other than unbleached or bleached
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
polo or turtle neck jump-
ers and pullovers, un­ ARGENTINA
' dervests and the like, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized , other than babies' gar- ments, of cotton or syn­ thetic textile fibres ; T-shirts and lightweight fine knit roll , polo or turtle neck jumpers and pullovers, of regenerated
textile fibres, other than babies' garments
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rub- berized :
Α.. Outer garments and clothing accessories :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Jerseys, pullovers, slip- overs, waistcoats, twin- sets, cardigans, bed- jackets and jumpers, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized, of wool, of cotton or of. man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countriesor territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Men's and boys' outer gar- ments :
Women's, girls' and infants' outer garments :
B. Other:
Men's and boys' woven
breeches, shorts and
slacks); women's, girls' and infants' woven
trousers and slacks, of wool , of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rub- berized ;
A. Outer garments and clothing accessories :
II. Other
Women's, girls' and infants' outer garments :
B. Other:
Blouses and shirt- blouses, knitted, cro- cheted (not elastic or rubberized), or woven, for women, girls and in­ fants, of wool, of cotton , or of man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiury couniries or (erritories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Men 's and boys' under gar­ ments, including collars, shirt fronts and cuffs :
Men 's and boys' shirts ,
woven, of wool, of cot­
ton or of man-made ROMANIA textile fibres
Terry towelling and similar terry fabrics of cotton :
Bed linen, table linen, toilet linen and kitchen linen ; curtains and other furnish- ing articles :
B. Other:
: Woven cotton terry fab- rics ; toilet and kitchen linen of woven cotton
terry fabrics
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
knitted or crocheted, not CHINA elastic or rubberized : SOUTH
Gloves, mittens and HONG KONG mitts , knitted or cro-
cheted , not elastic or rubberized, impregnated or coated with artificial plastic materials
Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized :
Gloves, mittens and . mitts, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rubberized, other than those of category 10, of wool, of cotton or of
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Stockings, understockings, socks, ankle-socks, sock- ettes and the like, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized :
Other than women's
stockings of synthetic textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Under garments, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Men's and boys' under-
pants and briefs,
women's, girls' and ROMANIA infants' (other than ARGENTINA babies') knickers and
briefs, knitted or cro-
cheted, not elastic or
rubberized, of cotton or
synthetic textile fibres
Men's and boys' outer gar- ments :
Men's and boys' coats of impregnated, coated, covered or laminated
woven fabric falling within heading No 59.08, 59.11 or 59. 12
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Men's and boys' outer gar- ments ;
Men's and boys' woven overcoats, raincoats and other coats, cloaks and capes, other than those of category 14 A, of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary Description countries or
Women's, girls' and infants' CHINA
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Women's, girls' and in­ MACAO
fants' coats of impreg- ROMANIA nated, coated, covered ARGENTINA or laminated woven fab-
ric falling withing head- BOLIVIA ing No 59.08, 59.11 or BRAZIL
B. Other:
Beneficiary Description countries or
(4) (5) Women's, girls' and infants' CHINA
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
outer garments : B. Other:
HONG KONG Women's, girls' and in­ MACAO
fants' woven overcoats, raincoats and other
coats, cloaks and capes ;
jackets and blazers,
other than garments of
category 15 A, of wool,
of cotton or of man- ' ECUADOR
Men's and boys' outer gar- ments :
Men's and boys' woven suits (including coordi- nate suits consisting of two or three pieces, which are ordered, packed, consigned and normally sold together), of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres, excluding ski suits
Beneficiary countriesor territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Men's and boys' outer gar- ments :
Men's and boys' woven jackets (excluding wais- ter jackets) and blazers, of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Benefictary couniriesor terriiories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Men s and boys' under gar­ ments, including collars, shirt fronts and cuffs :
Men's and boys' woven under garments other than shirts, of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Handkerchiefs : B. Other:
Handkerchiefs of woven
fabric, of a value of not
more than 15 ECU/kg ROMANIA net weight
Bed linen, table linen, toilet linen and kitchen linen ; curtains and other furnish- ing articles ;
B. Other :
Beneficiury countries or territories
ALlocated among Member States
not allocated
Men's and boys' outer gar- ments :
Women's, girls' and infants' outer garments :
B. Other:
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
cheaters, waister jackets and the like, woven, of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Yarn of man-made fibres ( discontinuous or waste ), not put up for retail sale :
A. Of synthetic textile fibres :
Yarn of discontinuous or waste synthetic fibres, not put up for retail sale
Beneficiary cou nt ries or terrilories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary Description countries or
Yarn of man-made fibres
(discontinuous or waste), CHINA
not put up for retail sale: SOUTH KOREA
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
B. Of regenerated textile fibres :
Yarn of or waste
Fibres, not put up for re- BOLIVIA
Under garments, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized :
Men's and boys' pyja- mas, knitted or cro- cheted, of cotton or of synthetic textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Under garments, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
girls' and (other than
babies') knitted or cro- cheted pyjamas and night dresses, of cotton or synthetic fibres
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rub- berized :
A. Outer garments and clothing accessories :
II. Other
Women's, girls' and infants' outer garments :
B. Other:
Women's, girls' and in­ fants' (other than babies') woven and knit- ted or crocheted dresses, of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rub- berized:
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Women's, girls' and in·· fants* (other than babies') woven and knit- ted or crocheted skirts, including divided skirts
A. Outer garments- clothing accessories:
II. Other
Women's, girls' and infants' outer garments :
B. Other:
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rub- berized :
A. Outer garments and clothing accessories:
II. Other:
Knitted or crocheted trousers (except shorts) other than babies'
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Women's, girls' and infants' outer garments :
B. Other:
Women's, girls* and in­ ' fants' (other than babies') woven suits and costumes (including coordinate suits consist­ ing of two or three pieces which are or- dered, packed, con-
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
signed and normally GUATEMALA
sold together), of wool, of cotton of of man- made textile fibres
Women's, girls' and infants' under garments ;
Women's, girls' and in­ fants' woven pyjamas and night dresses , of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Women s, girls * and under garments :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Women's, girls* and in­ fants' (other than babies') woven under garments, other than pyjamas and night dresses, of wool, of cot­ ton or of man-made tex­ tile fibres
Corsets, corset-belts, sus- pender-belts, brassières, braces, suspenders, garters and thé like ( including such
. articles of knitted or cro- cheted fabric), whether or not elastic :
Brassières, woven, knit- ted or crocheted
Beneficiary countriesor territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics (other than terry towelling or similar terry fabrics of cotton fall- ing within heading No 55.08 and fabrics falling within heading No 58.05):
Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics (other
than terry fabrics of cot- ton and narrow woven fabrics), of wool, of cot- ton or of man-made tex­ tile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary Description countriesor
Woven pile fabrics and
chenille fabrics (other than CHINA
terry towelling or similar SOUTH KOREA terry fabrics of cotton fall-
ing within heading No
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Woven pile fabrics and ARGENTINA chenille fabrics (other BOLIVIA
than terry fabrics of cot- BRAZIL
ton and narrow woven COLOMBIA fabrics), of wool, of cot-
ton or of man-made tex­ ECUADOR tile fibres GUATEMALA
. 55.08 and fabrics falling
within heading No 58.05): ROMANIA
B. Of other textile materi- als :
II. Other:
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Woven fabrics of man- made fibres (continuous). including woven fabrics of monofil or strip falling within heading No 51.01 or 51.02 :
A. Woven fabrics of syn­ thetic textile fibres :
Sacks and bags, of a kind
used for the packing of COLOMBIA goods :
fabrics of
strip or the like of polyethylene or polypropylene, less
than 3 m wide; PERU woven sacks of such
strip or the like
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Woven fabrics of strip BRAZIL
or the like of polyethy- COLOMBIA lene or polypropylene, ECUADOR
3 m or more wide
Woven fabrics of man- CHINA
including woven fabrics of
monofil or strip falling
within heading No 51.01 or 51.02 :
A. Woven fabrics of syn­ thetic textile fibres :
Woven fabrics of man- made fibres (continuous ),
including woven fabrics of monofil or strip falling within heading No 51.01 or 51.02 :
A. Woven fabrics of syn­ thetic textile fibres :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Woven fabrics of syn­
tinuous ) other than
those for tyres and those
Beneficiary countries or territories
B. Woven fabrics of regen- erated textile fibres :
Allocated among
not allocated
Woven fabrics of man-
including woven fabrics of
monofil or strip falling HONG KONG within heading No 51.01 or
Woven fabrics of regen-
erated textile fibres
(continuous) other than
those for tyres and those
Woven fabrics of man- made fibres (discontinuous or waste):
B. Of regenerated textile fibres :
(including terry fabrics) and chenille fabrics
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Woven fabrics generated textile (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow wov­ en fabrics , pile fabrics
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic or rubberized :
Knitted or crocheted synthetic curtain fabrics
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Deneficiary couniriesor territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Bed linen, table linen, toilet linen and kitchen linen ; curtains and other furnish­ ing articles:
Bed linen, table linen, toilet linen and kitchen linen ; curtains and other furnish- ing articles :
B. Other :
and kitchen linen other
than of cotton terry fab- ric
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated Member States among Member
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among not allocated Member States among Member
Bed linen, table linen, toilet linen and kitchen linen, curtains and other furnish- ing articles;
B. Other:
than net curtains) and furnishing articles, of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
(other
Yarn of man-made fibres
(continuous), not put up for retail sale ;
A. Yarn of synthetic textile fibres :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Yarn of synthetic textile
put up for retail sale, BOLIVIA other than non-textured
with a twist of not more
than 50 turns per metre
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Yarn of man-made fibres CHINA
(continuous), not put up for retail sale:
not put up for retail sale,
other than single yarn of
or with a twist of not
more than 250 turns per
metre and single non-
textured yarn of any INDIA
51.03-10;20 Yarn of man-made fibres
(continuous), put up for re- tail sale
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
A. Woven fabrics of syn­ thetic textile fibres :
Woven fabrics of syn­ thetic textile fibres (con­ tinuous), containing elastomeric yarn
including woven fabrics of SOUTH KOREA monofil or strip falling
within heading No 51.01 or
Beneficiary countries or territories
Woven fabrics of man-
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
including woven fabrics of monofil or strip falling within heading No 51.01 or 51.02 :
B. Woven fabrics of regen- erated textile fibres :
Woven fabrics of regen- erated textile fibres
Yarn of carded sheep's or lambs' wool (woollen yarn), not put up for retail sale ;
Yarn of fine animal hair (carded or combed), not put up for retail sale :
Yarn of carded sheep's or lambs' wool (woollen yarn) or of carded fine
- animal hair, not put up for retail sale
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Yam of combed sheep's or lamb's wool (worsted yarn),, not put up for retail sale ;
Yarn of fine animal hair (carded or combed ), not put up for retail sale :
Yarn of combed sheep's or lamb's wool (worsted yarn) or of combed fine
animal hair, not put up for retail sale
Beneficiary countriesor territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Yarn of sheep's or lambs' wool, of horsehair or of other animal hair (Fine or coarse), put up for retail sale :
Yarn of sheep's or lambs' wool or of fine
animal hair, put up for retail sale
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
lamb's wool or of fine ani­ mal hair
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Man-made fibres (discon- tinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise pre- pared for spinning :
B. Regenerated fibres :
fibres (discontinuous or
waste), carded or combed
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Man-made fibres (discon- tinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise pre- pared for spinning :
Synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or
carded or
Yarn of man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste), put up for retail sale :
Yam of synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste), pyt up for retail
Beneficiary countries or territories
INDIVIDUAL TARIFF CEILINGS Allocated among not allocated
Beneficiary Description countries or
Yarn of man-made fibres CHINA (discontinuous or waste),
put up for retail sale : SOUTH KOREA
Yarn of regenerated tex­ HONG KONG tile fibres (discontin- MACAO
uous or waste), put up ROMANIA for retail sale ARGENTINA
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
500 knots per metre of warp); 1 1 ; 13
Carpets, carpeting and rugs, knotted (made up or not)
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
58.01 ex 01 (more than 500 knots per metre of warp); 17; 30; 80
Carpets, carpeting and rugs, knotted (made up or not)
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Other carpets, carpeting, rugs, mats and matting, and 'Kelem', 'Schumacks' and 'Karamanie' nigs and the like (made up or not):
Felt and articles of felt, whether or not impregnated or coated :
A. Felt in the piece or sim- ply cut to rectangular shape :
Woven, knitted or cro- cheted carpets, carpet- ing, rugs, mats and mat- ting, and 'Kelem', 'Schumacks' and 'Kara- manie' rugs and the like (made up or not);
Floor coverings of felt
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
the type Gobelins, Flanders, Aubusson , Beauvais and the like , and needle-worked tapestries (for example, petit point and cross stitch) made in panels and the like by hand :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Narrow woven fabrics, and narrow fabrics ( bolduc) consisting of warp without weft assembled by means of
. an adhesive, other than goods falling within head- ing No 58.06:
Narrow woven fabrics not exceeding 30 cm in
width with selvedges ( woven , gummed or made otherwise) on both edges, other than woven labels and the like ; bolduc
( but not knitted
including woven , or crocheted
figured ; hand or
Woven labels, badges and the like, not embroidered, in the piece, in strips or cut to shape or size
Chenille yarn (including flock chenille yarn), gimped yarn (other than metallized yarn falling within heading No 52.01 , and gimped horsehair yarn); braids and ornamental trimmings in the piece; taésels, pompons and the like ;
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
mechanically made lace, in
Tulle and other net fabrics
(but not including woven, knitted or crocheted
Tulle and other net fabrics
gimped yarn (other than metallized yarn and
braids and ornamental trimmings in the piece;
tassels, pompons and PERU the like
the piece, in strips or in mo­ tifs
Embroidery, in the piece, in strips or in motifs
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic or rubberized :
Knitted or crocheted fabric and articles thereof, elastic
or · rubberized (including elastic knee-caps and elastic stockings);
Knitted or crocheted
fabric, not elastic or rub-
berized, of synthetic tex­
elastofibres ; knitted or
crocheted fabric, elastic ' INDONESIA or rubberized
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic or rubberized :
Rachel lace and long- pile fabric (imitation fur), knitted or cro- cheted , not elastic or
rubberized, of synthetic textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic or rubberized :
Other than those of cat- egories 38 A, 63 and 64, of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Travelling rugs and blank- ets :
Beneficiary countriesor territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
cotton or of man-made textile fibres
rugs and of wool, of
Beneficiary couniries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro­ cheted, not elastic or rub­ berized :
Knitted or crocheted fabric and articles thereof, elastic or rubberized (including elastic knee-caps and elastic stockings):
B. Other:
Clothing accessories
and other articles (ex­ cept garments), knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized ; articles (other than bathing cos­ tumes) of knitted or cro­ cheted fabric, elastic or rubberized, of wool, of cotton, or of man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Under garments, knitted or crocheted , not elastic or rubberized :
Babies' under garments of knitted or crocheted fabrics , not elastic or rubberized
garments up to and in-
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Under garments, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized :
B. Of other textile mater­ ials :
Women's, girls' and in­ fants' knitted or cro- cheted petticoats and slips, of synthetic textile fibres, other than babies' garments
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
B. Of other textile materij als ;
Beneficiary Description countries or
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Outer garments and other
articles, knitted or cro-
cheted, not elastic or rub-
b) Other:
garments up to and inclu-
ments, of wool, of cot- ton or of man-made textile fibres
A. Outer garments and clothing accessories:
II. Other:
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rub- berized :
A. Outer garments and clothing accessories ;
II . Other
Knitted or crocheted fabric and articles thereof, elastic
or rubberized ( including elastic knee-caps and elastic stockings ):
Beneficiary territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Other :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rub- berized :
A. Outer garments and clothing accessories ;
II. Other:
Track suits of knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic or rubber- ized, of wool, of cot- ton or of man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
HONG KONG A. Outer garments and MACAO
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Outer garments and other
articles, knitted or cro-
cheted, not elastic or rub- SOUTH KOREA berized :
Women's, girls' and
infants' (other than BRAZIL
clothing accessories :
Other :
babies") suits and costumes (including coordinate suits
consisting of two or
three pieces which INDIA
consigned and nor-
mally sold together),
of knitted or cro- MEXICO cheted fabric, not
elastic or rubberized, of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rub- berized :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Men's and boys' suits (including coor- dinate suits consist­
ing of two or three pieces which are or- dered, packed, con- signed and normally sold together), . of knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic or rubberized, of wool, of cotton or of man- made textile fibres,
clothing accessories :
II. Other:
Beneficiary territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
her or not also suitable for domestic use), of wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
(4) (5) Men's and boys' outer gar-
ments ; CHINA Women's, girls' and infants' SOUTH KOREA
outer garments : HONG KONG B. Other; MACAO
ROMANIA industrial and occupa- ARGENTINA
tional clothing; wo- BOLIVIA
Men's and boy's woven
men's, girls' and infants' woven aprons, smock- overalls and other in-
dustrial clothing (whet- ECUADOR
Stockings, under stockings, socks, ankle-socks, sock- , ettes and the like, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Women's stockings synthetic textile Fibres
Beneficiary Description countries or
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Men's and boys' outer gar- ments :
Men's and boys' woven
and similar indoor wear ROMANIA and other outer gar-
ments, except garments of categories 6, 14 A, 14 B, 16, 17,21,76 and 79, of wool, of cot- ton or of man-made tex­
Beneficiary Description countries or
Men's and boys' outer gar- CHINA
ments : SOUTH KOREA Women's, girls' and infants' H0N6 KONG outer garments : MACAO
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Other : ROMANIA
Woven swimwear, of AR6ENTINA wool, of cotton or of BOLIVIA
Women's, girls' and infants' outer garments :
A. Babies' garments ; girls' garments up to and in- cluding commercial size 86:
Women's, girls' and infants' under garments :
Beneficiary countriesor territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Babies' woven gar- ments, of wool, of cot- ton or of man-made tex­ tile fibres
garments up to and in-
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Women's, girls' and infants' outer garments ;
B; Other:
Women's, girls' and in­ fants' woven bath robes, dressing gowns, bed jackets and similar in- door wear and other outer garments, except garments of categories 6, 7, 15 A, 15 B, 21, 26, 27, 29, 76, 79 and 80, of
wool, of cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Under garments, knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized :
B. Of other textile materi­ als :
Under garments, other than babies', knitted or crocheted, not elastic or rubberized, of wool, of fine animal hair or of re- generated textile fibres
• 72, 73, 74 and 75, of wool, of cotton or o(
Outer garments and other articles, knitted or cro- cheted, not elastic or rub- berized :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
A. Outer garments and MACAO
clothing accessories : II. Other:
knitted or crocheted,
not elastic or rubber-
ized, other than gar-
ments of categories ECUADOR 5, .7, 26, 27, 28, 71 ,
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Shawls, scarves, mufflers, CHINA mantillas, veils and the like : SOUTH
Other than knitted or HONG crocheted, of wool, of MACAO
Beneficiary count ries or territories
Other than knitted or
crocheted, of wool, of HONG KONG
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Ties, bow ties and cravats :
cotton or of man-made textile fibres
Corsets, corset-belts, sus- pender-belts, brassières, braces, suspenders, garters and the like (including such articles of knitted or cro- cheted fabric), whether or not elastic ;
Corsets, corset-belts, suspender-belts, braces, suspenders , garters and the like (including such articles of knitted or cro- cheted fabric), other
than brassières, whether or not elastic
Beneficiary countries or territories
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
stockings, socks and sock- SOUTH KOREA
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
ettes, not. knitted or cro- cheted
Made up accessories for ar­ ticles of apparel (for exam- ple, dress shields, shoulder and other pads, belts, muffs , sleeve protectors , pockets):
Other than knitted or crocheted
Beneficiary countriesor territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary Description countries or
A. Of woven cotton fabric SOUTH KOREA of a value of more than HONG KONG
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
and cables, of synthetic textile fibres, plaited or not
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, plaited or not:
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Tarpaulins, sails, awnings, CHINA sunblinds, tents and camp­
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Woven fabrics of man-
made fibres (continuous), SOUTH KOREA including woven fabrics of HONG KONG monofil or strip falling
within heading No 51.01 or
ROMANIA Rubberized textile fabrics ARGENTINA
other than rubberized, knit- ted or crocheted goods :
A. Rubberized textile
fabrics not comprised in subheading B:
III.Other:
Woven fabrics of man-made textile fibres and rubberized textile woven fabrics for tyres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods :
B. Of other textile mater- ials :
of a
Sacks and
kind used for the pack- ing of goods, of woven fabrics, other than made from polyethylene or polypropylene strip
Wadding and articles of wadding; textile flock and dust and mill neps
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Felt and articles of felt,
whether or not impregnated or coated :
Felt and articles of felt, whether or not impreg- nated or coated, other than floor coverings
Beneficiary couniries or terrilories
Other than clothing and clothing accessories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Bonded fibre fabrics, simi­
lar bonded yarn fabrics, and
articles of such fabrics, SOUTH K0REA 24 whether or not impregnated
or coated :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Nets and netting made of
twine, cordage or rope, and
made up fishing nets of
Nets and netting made of twine, cordage or rope, and made up fish- ing nets of yarn, twine, cordage or rope
Other articles made from yarn, twine, cordage, rope
or cables, other than textile fabrics and articles made from such fabrics :
Other articles made from yarn, twine, cord­
age, rope or cables, other than textile fab- rics, articles made from such fabrics and articles of category 97
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Textile fabrics coated with
gum or amylaceous sub­ stances, of a kind used for the outer covers of books and the like ; tracing cloth ; prepared painting canvas ; buckram and similar fabrics for hat foundations and similar uses
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
coated, covered or lami- CHINA
nated with preparations of cellulose derivatives or of
other artificial plastic ma­ terials
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, plaited or not :
Other than of synthetic textile fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Linoleums and matenals prepared on a textile base in a similar manner to lino- leum, whether or not cut to shape or of a kind used as floor coverings ; floor cover- ings consisting of a coating applied on a textile base, cut to shape or not
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Rubberized textile fabrics other than rubberized knit- ted or crocheted goods :
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Textile fabrics otherwise impregnated or coated ;
painted canvas being theatrical scenery, studio back-cloths or the like :
Textile fabrics, impreg- nated or coated, other thanthoseofcategories 99, 100, 102 and 103 ; painted canvas being theatrical scenery, stu- dio back-cloths or the like
Beneficiary countries or territories
crocheted goods) consisting bi ned with rubber threads
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
mings (other than knitted or
SOUTH KOREA of textile materials com- ι HONG KONG
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Wicks, of woven, plaited or
knitted textile materials, for
dies and the like; tubular HONG KONG knitted gas-mantle fabric MACAO
and incandescent gas man- tles
Textile hosepiping and sim- ilar tubing, with or without lining, armour or access- ories of other materials
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Transmission, conveyor or elevator belts or belting, of textile material, whether or not strengthened with metal or other material
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
sunblinds, tents and camp­ ing goods :
Woven tarpaulins, sails. awnings and sunblinds
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
sunblinds, tents and camp­ ing goods :
Camping goods, woven, other than pneumatic mattresses and tents
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Tarpaulins, sails, awnings, sunblinds, tents and camp- ing goods:
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Other made up textile arti­ cles (including dress pat­ terns):
Other made up textile
ing those of categories 1 13 and 1 14
Other made up textile arti­
C. Floor cloths, dish cloths, dusters and the like, other than of jute and other textile bast Fibres falling within heading No 57.03, or of coir:
Floor cloths, dish cloths, dusters and the like , other than knitted or crocheted
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Textile fabrics and texti.e articles of a kind commonly used in machinery or plant
Beneficiary countries or territories
ALlocated among Member States
not allocated
Flax or ramie yarn, not put up for retail sale
(a) Notwithstanding the rules for the interpretation of the Common Customs Tariff, the wording for the designation of the products is to be considered as having no more than an indicative value, the preferential scheme being determined by the application of the numbers in the NIMEXE.
(b) The admission of postal consignments to the benefit of the preferential scheme is subject to the particular NIMEXE code relating to the products concerned being indicated.
List of non-MFA textile products subject to Community tariff ceilings allocated OT not allocated among memDerStates within the generalized tariff preferences in favour of certain developing countries and
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Each of the other
benef i ciaries listed in annex D
(in tonnes (6)
Flax or ramie yarn, put up for retail sale
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Each of the beneficiaries ·· listed in
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Woven ' fabrics of flax or 31;35;38;51; oframie
Beneficiary countries or territories
Each of the other
benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
( in tonnes (6)
Bed linen, table linen and kitchen linen; curtains and other furnishing articles :
B. Other:
Bed linen of flax or ramie, other than knitted or crocheted
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Each of the benef i ciaries listed in annex D
Table linen , toilet linen and kitchen linen of flax or ramie, other than knitted or crocheted
toilet linen and kitchen linen; curtains and other furnishing articles :
B. Other:
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
( in tonnes ^ (5) (6)
Each of the other
benef i ciaries listed in annex D
linen; curtains and other furnishing articles :
Curtains (including net curtains) and other furnishing articles, of flax or ramie, other than knitted or crocheted
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
(in tonnes (7)
Each of the benefi ciaries Listed in annex D
(in tonnes (6)
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
("in tonnes > (7)
Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, plaited or not :
Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, plaited or not, of flax or ramie
Beneficiary countries or territories
Each of the benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods :
B. Of other textile materials : I. Used:
a) Of flax or of sisal :
Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods, used, of flax or sisal, other than knitted or crocheted
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
(in tonnes > (7)
Each of the beneficiaries *· Listed in
(in tonnes (6)
Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics (other than terry towelling or similar terry fabrics of cotton falling within heading No 55.08 and fabrics falling within heading No 58.05):
Shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantillas, veils and the like :
Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics of flax or ramie, other than narrow woven fabrics ; shawls, scarves, mufflers, mantillas, veils and the like, of flax or ramie, other than knitted or crocheted
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
Each of the benef i ciaries listed in annex D
(in tonnes (6)
56.01-11 ; 13 ; Synthetic textile fibres (dis- 15; 16; 17; 18 continuous)
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Each of the other
benef i ciaries listed in annex D
Yarn of
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
(in tonnes > (7)
Each of the other
benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
Synthetic textile fibres (dis- continuous)
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Each of the other
benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
(in tonnes (6 )
Yarn of regenerated textile Fibres
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary mmkmmm territories
Each of the other
benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
(4) Yarn of coarse animal hair
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Each of the benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
(in tonnes ) (7)
Each of the benef i ciaries listed in annex D
Yarn of sisal
•Mifkury countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Each of the
benef i ciaries - listed in
( in tonnes (6)
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Each of the benefi ciaries listed in annex D
Yarn of
true hemp and other
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Each of the benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Each of the benef i ciaries listed in annex D
(in tonnes (6)
Woven fabrics of horsehair or of other coarse animal hair
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
* in tonnes
Each of the benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
( in tonnes >
( 4 ) Woven fabrics of silk
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
(in tonnes ( 7 )
Each of the other
benef i ciaries listed in annex D
(in tonnes ( 6 )
Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics (other than terry towelling or similar terry fabrics of cotton falling within heading No 58.05)
Of silk, of noil silk or of other waste
silk. Narrow woven fabrics of silk, of noil silk or of other waste silk
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Each of the benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
Woven fabrics of true hemp, of other vegetable textile fibres or of paper yarn
(in tonnes ^ (5) (6 )
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Each of the berief i ciaries listed in annex D
Woven fabrics of metal threads or of metallized yarn
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Each of the benef i ciaries listed in annex D
Knitted or crocheted fabric of textile
material other than cotton, wool or man-made fibres
Each of the benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Travelling rugs and blankets of
textile material other than cotton , wool or man-made fibres
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Each of the benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
(in tonnes (6)
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Beneficiary countries or territories
matting, of sisal, of other fibres of the Agave family or of Manila hemp
Each of the other
benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
( in tonnes (6)
clothing cotton ,
Each of the benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
material other than
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
( in tonnes (6)
(4) Felt of coarse animal hair
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Each of the benef i ciaries listed in annex D
(in tonnes (6)
Twine, cordage, ropes and cables of abaca (Manila hemp) or of true hemp
Beneficiary countries or territories
ALLocated among Member States
not aLLocated
Each of the other
benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, of sisal
Allocated among Member States
not allocated
Each of the other
benef i ciaries Listed in annex D
( in tonnes (6)
Used clothing
( in tonnes ) ( in tonnes '
Beneficiary countries or territories
Allocated among
not allocated
Each of the
benefi ciaries 99 5 listed in
Tufted carpets, carpeting and rugs of jute or of other textile bast fibres of heading No 57.0*
Yarn óf jute or of other textile bast fibres of heading No 57.03
Woven fabrics of jute or of other textile bast fibres of heading No 57.03 :
A. Of a width of not more than 150 cm and weighing per m2:
India, Thailand, the coun- tries listed in Annex £
India, Thailand, the coun- tries listed in Annex £
India, Sri Lanka, the coun- tries listed in Annex €■
India, Thailand , the coun- trieslistedinAnnex £
India, Thailand, the coun- tries listed in Annex ' £
India, Thailand, the coun- tries listed in Annex £
India, Thailand, the coun- trieslistedinAnnex £
ex b) Carpets, carpeting, rugs, mats and matting, of jute or of other textile bast fibres of
Narrow woven fabrics, and narrow fabrics (bolduc) consisting of warp without weft assembled by means of an adhesive, of jute or of other textile bast fibres of heading No 57.03, other than goods falling within heading No 58.06
Twine, cordage, ropes and cables, plaitedornot,ofjuteorofothertextile bast fibres of heading No 57.03
List of jute and coir manufactures referred to n Article 1
Description Beneficiary countries (1) (2) (3)
Less than 310 g
Not less than 310 g but not more than 500 g
Other carpets, carpeting, rugs, mats and matting and 'Keiem', 'Schumacks' and 'Karamanie' rugs and the like (made up or not):
A. Carpets, carpeting, rugs, mats and matting :
I. Coirmatsandmatting II. Other:
More than 500 g
Β. Of a width óf more than 150 cm
62.03 Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods :
A. Of jute or of other textile bast fibres of heading No 57.03 :
II. Other:
a) Of fabric weighing less than 310 g/m2
b) Of fabric weighing not less than 310 g/m2 but not more than 500 g/m2
c) Of fabric weighing more than 500g/m2
Beneficiary countries
India, Thailand, the coun- tries listed in Annex £
List of developing countries and territories enjoying generalized tariff preferences (l) I. INDEPENDENT COUNTRIES
451 Antigua and Barbuda 528 Argentina
31 1 Sao Tome and Principe (2)
355 Seychelles and dependencies (2) 264 Sierra Leone
669 Sri Lanka 465 St Lucia 467 St Vincent 224 Sudan (2) 492 Sunnam 393 Swaziland 608 Syria
306 Central African Republic (2) 244 Chad (2)
( ' ) The code number preceding the name of each beneficiary country or territory is that given in 'Geonomenclature 1980 (Regulation(EEC)No2566/79–OJNoL294,21. II. 1979,p.5).
(2) This country is also included in Annex £
dependent or administered, or for whose external relations Member States of the Community or third countries are wholly or partly responsible
802 Australian Oceania (Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Heard Island and McDon­ ald Islands, Norfolk Island)
357 British Indian Ocean Territory 703 Brunei
529 Falkland Islands and dependencies
476 Netherlands Antilles
809 New Caledonia and dependencies
814 New Zealand Oceania (Tokelau and Niue Islands ; Cook Islands) 813 Pitcairn
890 Polar regions (French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Australian Antarctic Territories, British Antarctic Territories)
329 St Helena and dependencies 454 Turks and Caicos Islands
457 Virgin Islands of the United States 811 Wallis and Futuna Islands
Note: The above lists may be amended subsequently to take account of changes in the inter­ national status of countries or territories .
(') American Oceania includes: Guam, American Samoa (including Swain's Island), Midway Islands, Johnston and Sand Islands, Wake Island and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (the Caroline, Marianas and Marshall Islands).
306 Central African Republic 244 Chad
311 Sao Tome and Principe
355 Seychelles and dependencies 342 Somalia
List of least-developed developing countries
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No /62 of ...
applying generalized tariff preferences for in respect of certain agricultural products originating in developing countries
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the Euro­ pean Economic Community , and in particular Article 43 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation ( EEC ) No 3033 / 80 of 1 1 November 1980 laying down the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products ('), and in particular Article 12 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commis­ sion (2),
Having regard to the opinion of the European Par­ liament (3),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (4),
Whereas, within the context of UNCTAD, the Euro­ pean Economic Community offered to grant tariff preferences on certain processed agricultural pro­ ducts of Chapters 1 to 24 of the Common Customs Tariff which originate in developing countries ; whereas the preferential treatment proposed in that offer consists, in respect of certain goods which are subject to the trade arrangements laid down in Regulation (EEC) No 3033/80, of a reduction in the fixed component of the charge applicable to such goods by virtue of that Regulation, and, in respect of products which are subject to the single customs duty, of a reduction in such duty ; whereas preferen­ tial imports of the products concerned should be effected without quantitative restrictions ;
Whereas the positive role played by this system in improving access for developing countries to the markets of the preference-giving countries was recognized at the ninth session of the UNCTAD Special Committee on Preferences; whereas it was there agreed that the objectives of the generalized
preferences scheme would not be fully achieved by the end of 1980, that consequently it should be pro­ longed beyond the initial period and that an overall review of the system should take place in 1990 ;
Whereas it is desirable therefore that the Com­ munity continue to apply generalized tariff prefer­
ences, in the context of the conclusions reached in UNCTAD and in accordance with the intentions
expressed in the said Committee in particular by all the preference-giving countries ;
Whereas the temporary and non-binding nature of the system means that the offer may be withdrawn wholly or in part at a later stage, thus maintaining the possibility of remedying any unfavourable situa­ tions which might arise, including such situations in the African, Caribbean and Pacific States (ACP States) following the implementation of the system;
Whereas experience in the initial period shows that the Community scheme has to an appreciable extent achieved its intended objectives ; whereas it is there­ fore appropriate to maintain its fundamental fea­ tures, namely a reduction in customs duties without any restriction in the quantities imported for certain agricultural products listed in Annex A, and a reduction in customs duties within the limits of a Community ceiling or tariff quotas for tobacco, cocoa butter, soluble coffee and preserved pine­ apples ;
Whereas, subject to the above conditions, each of these Community tariff quotas or ceilings generally corresponds to the amount applicable in 82;
Whereas, from 1 January 1981 , the Hellenic Republic has applied the Community generalized preferences system in accordance with Article 1 17 of the Act of Accession of 1979 ;
Whereas the rates of conversion into national cur­ rency of the preferential amounts expressed in ECU are the rates provided for in the Common Customs Tariff;
Whereas in the multilateral trade negotiations, in accordancewithparagraph6oftheTokyoDeclara­ tion, the Community reaffirmed that special treat­ ment should, whenever possible, be granted to the least developed among the developing countries;
 whereas , therefore , the agricultural products listed in
Annex C t originating in the least-developed developing countries appearing on the list annexed to this Regulation should be totally exempt from customs duties ;
Whereas it is necessary to ensure equal and con­ tinuous access for all Community importeJyto the Community tariff quotas and the uninterrupted application of the rate laid down for such quotas to all imports of the products concerned into all Mem­ ber States until the quotas are used up ; whereas the Community nature of the quotas can be respected by apportioning the Community tariff quotas among the Member States; whereas, moreover, to this end and in the context of the utilization system, the actual charges against the quotas may relate only to products which have been entered for free circu­ lation and which are accompanied by a certificate of origin ;
Whereas, to take account of future import trends in the various Member States in respect of the tariff quotas and to mitigate any inadequacy in the fixed-scale apportionment , the quotas should be divided into two tranches, the first being appor­ tioned among the Member States and the second held as a reserve to cover subsequently the require­ ments of Member States which have exhausted their initial shares ; whereas, moreover, the reserve consti­ tuted as described tends to avoid makjng the system of utilization of the quotas excessively rigid, to the detriment of each of the developing countries con­ cerned, and will contribute to achieving the aim already mentioned of improving the generalized preferences system ;
Whereas Member States may exhaust their initial shares of the tariff quotas at different rates ; whereas to avoid disruption of supplies on this account it should be provided that any Member State which has almost used up one of its initial shares should draw an additional share from the corresponding reserve ; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional shares is almost entirely used up and repeated as many times as each of the reserves allows ; whereas each of these initial and additional shares must be available for use until the end of the quota period ;
Whereas if, at a specified date in the quota period, a considerable balance remains in one of the initial
shares of one or other Member State, it is essential that that Member State return a portion of it to the
corresponding reserve in order to prevent a part of the Community quota from remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others ;
Whereas, in the case of the Community tariff ceiling for tobacco other than Virginia type, the objective pursued may be attained by applying a method of administration based on the charging, at Com­ munity level, against the abovementioned ceiling, of imports of the product concerned as and when that product is entered for free circulation and is accom­ panied by a certificate of origin; whereas this method of administration must make provision for the reintroduction of the levying of customs duties in their entirety as soon as the said ceiling is reached at Community level ;
Whereas such methods of administration call for close and particularly rapid cooperation between
the Member States and the Commission, which must, in particular, be able to observe the extent to which charges are made against the tariff quotas and ceiling and inform Member States thereof; whereas such cooperation should be particularly close in view of the need for the Commission to be able to take appropriate measures to reintroduce the levying of customs duties in their entirety when the ceiling is reached ;
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the King­ dom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united within and jointly repre­ sented by the Benelux Economic Union, any mea­ sure concerning the administration of the shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any one of its members ;
Whereas it is expedient that the Community should authorize the importation of the products referred to in Annex A originating in the countries and territo­ ries listed in Annex B, subject to the customs duties given in respect of each of them, without quantita­ tive restrictions ; whereas the benefit of such prefer­ ential terms should be reserved for products originating in the countries and territories under consideration , the concept of 'originating products' being determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Council Regulation (EEC) No 802/68 of 27 June 1968 on the common definition of the concept of the origin of goods ( ' ),
Imports into Greece of "the products referred to above shall be subject to the customs duties estab­ lished in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of Accession of 1979.
2. The treatment provided for in paragraph 1 shall be enjoyed solely by products originating in the countries and territories listed in Annex B.
For the purposes of the application of this section, the concept of originating products shall -be deter­ mined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 802/68.
3. The products listed in Annex C originating in the countries listed in Annex J) shall be imported into the Community free of customs duties ^
without prejudice to the levying of
additional duties which may be applic­
able in the Common Customs Tariff ,
indicated by the symbols "vc", "ads" or "adf".
4 . Tequila, Pisco and Singani falling within subhead-, ing 22.09 C V ex a) of the Common Customs Tariff shall qualify for the preferential system Subject ta" the production of a certificate of authenticity appearing in the certificate of origin and drawn upi according to the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 2.
1. Every three months, the Member States shall forward to the Statistical Office of the European Communities the information relating to imports under this Regulation, in accordance with the provi-' sions of the nomenclature of goods for external trade statistics of the Community and statistics of trade between Member States (NIMEXE).
2. However, in the case of products in Section III subject to quotas, the Member States shall, by the 1 1th day of each month at the latest, forward the list of charges effected during the previous month.
At the Commission's request, when the level of 75 % . of the ceiling is reached, the Member States shall' fqrward the lists of charges to the Commission every
10days; these lists shall be forwarded within five days from the end of each 10-day period.
1. From 1 January to 31 December <183, Common Customs Tariff duties relating to raw or unmanufac­ tured tobacco, other than Virginia type, falling within subheadings 24.01 ex A and ex B of the Common Customs Tariff shall be suspended at 7 % with a minimum charge of 33 ECU per 100 kilo­ grams net weight and a maximum charge of 45 ECU per 100 kilograms net weight.
Imports into Greece of the products referred to above shall be subject to the customs duty estab­ lished in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of Accession of 1979.
2. This tariff suspension shall apply solely to products originating in the countries and territories listed in Annex B, with the exception of China.
3. Those imports which enjoy exemption from customs duties under other preferential tariff arran­ gements granted by the Community may not be charged against the ceiling referred to in para­ graph 4.
For the purposes of the application of this section, the concept of 'originating products' shall be deter­ mined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 802/68.
4. Subject to Articles 4 and 5, this suspension shall be granted for the tobaccos in question up to a Community ceiling of 2 550 tonnes.
As soon as the ceiling laid down in Article 3 (4) for Community imports of products originating in all of the countries and territories referred to in Arti­
cle 3 (2) is reached at Community level, the levying of customs duties on imports of the tobaccos in question from all the countries and territories listed
in Annex B may be reintroduced until the end of the period referred to in Article 3(1 ).
From 1
munity imports of the products listed in Annex A shall benefit from the customs duties specified for each product.
1. Imports of the products in question shall be charged against the Community ceiling as and when the tobaccos in question are entered for free circula­ tion and are accompanied by a certificate of origin pursuant to the rules laid down in Article 3 (3).
2. Goods may be charged against the ceiling only if the certificate of origin referred to in paragraph 1 is submitted before the date on which the levying of duties is reintroduced.
3. The extent to which the ceiling has been used up shall be determined at Community level on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2.
13 ECU per 100 kilograms net weight and a maxi­ mum charge of 45 ECU per 100 kilograms net weight .
Imports into Greece of the products referred to above shall be subject to the customs,duties estab­ lished in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of Accession of 1979.
2. This tariff quota shall apply solely to products originating in the countries and territories listed in Annex B, with the exception of China. Those imports which enjoy exemption from customs duties under other preferential tariff arrangements granted by the Community may not be charged against this tariff quota.
For the purposes of the application of this section, the concept of 'originating products' shall be deter­ mined in accordance with the procedure laid' down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 802/68.
Entry under this tariff quota shall be subject to the production of a certificate of authenticity appearing in the certificate of origin and made out in accord­ ance with the procedure referred to in the second subparagraph .
1. A first tranche of 59 960 tonnes shall be appor­ tioned among the Member States. The shares for each member which, subject to Article 11, shall be valid until 31 December 4983 . shall be as follows :
The Commission , in close cooperation with the
Member States, shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the above provisions are applied.
2. The Commission shall issue a Regulation to reintroduce the levying of customs duties in respect of all the countries and territories referred to in
Article 3 (2) in accordance with Article 4.
At the Commission's request, and in any case at least monthly, the Member States shall inform the Commission of imports of the products in question charged against the Community ceiling laid down in Article 3 (4). This information shall show both the value, expressed in ECU, and the quantity expressed in tonnes.
A. Raw or unmanufactured Virginia type tobaccos
From 1 January to 31 December 4983, <k Com­
munity tariff quota of 61 200 tonnes shall be opened in the Community for imports of raw or unmanufac­ tured Virginia type tobaccos falling within subhead­ ings 24.01 ex A and ex B of the Common Customs Tariff. Within this tariff quota the customs duty shall be suspended at 7 % with a minimum charge of
The second tranche of 1 240 tonnes shall consti­
tute the reserve.
1 . Where a Member State has used 90 % or more of its initial share as fixed in Article 9 (1), or of that share minus any portion returned to the reserve pur­ suant to Article 12, it shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share, to the extent that the reserve so permits, equal to 10% of its ini­ tial share rounded up, should the occasion arise, to the nearest unit.
2. Where a Member State, after exhausting its ini­
tial share, has used 90 % or more of the second share
drawn by it, that Member State shall forthwith,
•under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1,
draw a third share, equal to 5 % of its initial share
rounded up, should the occasion arise, to the nearest unit.
3 . Where a Member State , after exhausting its second share, has used 90 % or more of the third share drawn by it, that Member State shall, under the same conditions, draw a fourth share equal to the third. This process shall continue until the reserve has been exhausted .
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares lower than those specified therein if there are grounds for believing that the latter may not be used in full. Any Member State applying this paragraph shall inform the Com­ mission of its grounds for so doing.
additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 10 shall
be valid until 31 December AQiJ .
A Member State which, on 25 October <<<33, has not exhausted its initial share shall, not later than 7 November (463, return to the reserve any unused portion in excess of 15% of the initial amount. It may return a greater portion^erreHxvxokcarKov*!**
Cocoa butter, including cocoa fat or oil Extracts, essences or concentrates, of coffee, tea or maté and preparations with a basis of those extracts , essences or concentrates ; roasted chicory and other roasted coffee sub­ stitutes and extracts, essences and concentrates thereof:
ex A. Extracts, essences or concentrates of coffee and preparations with a basis of those extracts, essences or concentrates: – Extracts of coffee or 'soluble coffee'
obtained by a water method of extraction from roasted coffee, put up in powder form, granulated, in grains, in tablets or in a similar solid form
Kate of duty 8%
Member States shall, not later than 7 November notify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to and including 25 October and charged against the Community quota and of any portion of their initial
share returned to the reserve.
B. Cocoa butter and soluble coffee
to 31 December 4^83 , Com­ Community for imports of the products listed below
and under the conditions stated below :
From 1
munity tariff quotas shall be opened within the
 Imports into Greece of the products referred to above shall be subject to the customs duties estab­ lished in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of Accession of 1979.
2. These tariff quotas shall apply solely to pro­ ducts originating in the countries and territories listed in Annex B, with the exception of China in respect of products falling within subheading 21.02 ex A. Those imports which enjoy exemption from customs duties under other preferential tariff arrangements granted by the Community may not be charged against these tariff quotas .
For the purposes of the application of this section, the concept of 'originating products' shall be deter­ mined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 802/68.
1. Where a Member State has used 90 % or more of one of the initial shares as fixed in Article 14 ( 1 ), or of that share minus any portion returned to the reserve pursuant to Article 17, it shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share, to the extent that the reserve so permits, equal to 10% of the initial share rounded up, should the occasion arise, to the nearest unit. ,
2. Where a Member State, after exhausting one of
the initial shares, has used 90% or more of the
second share drawn by it, that Member State shall
forthwith, under the conditions laid down in para­
graph 1, draw a third share, equal to 5 % of the ini­
tial share rounded up, should the occasion arise, to the nearest unit.
3 . Where a Member State , after exhausting its second share, has used 90% or more of the third share drawn by it, that Member State shall, under the same conditions, draw a fourth share equal to the third. This process shall continue until the reserve has been exhausted .
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares lower than those specified therein if there are grounds for believing that the latter may not be used in full. Any Member State applying this paragraph shall inform the Com­ mission of its grounds for so doing.
additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 1 5 shall be valid until 31 December M83 .
A Member State which, on 15 September f?83j has not exhausted its initial shares shall, not later than
1 October 4383/ return to the reserve any unused portion in excess of 20% of the initial amount. It
1. A first tranche of 19 5ootonnes for cocoa butter and of 17 190 tonnes for soluble coffee of the Com­ munity tariff quotas referred to in Article 13 shall be apportioned among the Member States as follows :
Cocoa butler
2. The second tranche of 2 50<?tonnes for cocoa butter and 1910 tonnes for soluble coffee shall con­ stitute the reserve.
 The Member States shall, not later than 1 October
•1483, notify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 Sep­ tember >f?83 and charged against the Community quotas and of any portion of their initial shares returned to the reserve.
C. Preserved pineapples, other than in slices, half slices or spirals
each Member State which, subject to Article 22, shall be valid until 31 December MS}, shall be as follows :
From 1 January to 31 December f<?83 a Com­
stitute the reserve.
munity tariff quota of 45 900 tonnes shall be opened by the Community for imports of preserved pine­ apples, other than in slices, half slices or spirals, falling within the following subheadings of the Common Customs Tariff: ex 20.06 B II a) 5, ex 20.06 B II b) 5, ex 20.06 B II c) 1 dd) and ex 20.06 B II c) 2 bb). Within this tariff quota the customs duty shall be suspended at 12 %, increased by the levy on sugar where the sugar content exceeds 17% by weight in the case of products falling within sub­ heading ex 20.06 B II a) 5 aa), and 19 % by weight in the case of products falling within subheading ex 20.06 B II b) 5 aa).
Imports into Greece of the products referred to above shall be subject to the customs duties estab­ lished in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of Accession of 1979.
2. This tariff quota shall apply solely to products originating in the countries and territories listed in Annex B, with the exception of China. Those imports which enjoy exemption from customs duties under other preferential tariff arrangements granted by the Community may not be charged against this quota .
For the purposes of the application of this section, the concept of 'originating products' shall be deter­ mined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 802/68.
1 . A first tranche of 31 900 tonnes shall be appor­ tioned among the Member States. The shares for
its initial share as fixed in Article 19(1 ), or of that share minus any portion returned to the reserve pur­ suant to Article 22, it shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share, to the extent that the reserve so permits, equal to 10% of its ini­ tial share rounded up, should the occasion arise, to the nearest unit.
2. Where a Member State, after exhausting its ini­ tial share, has used 90 % or more of the second share drawn by it, that Member State shall forthwith, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a third share, equal to 5 % of its initial share rounded up, should the occasion arise, to the nearest unit.
3. Where a Member State, after exhausting its second share, has used 90% or more of the third share drawn by it, that Member State shall, under the same conditions, draw a fourth share equal to the third. This process shall continue until the reserve has been exhausted.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs I, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares lower than those specified therein if there are grounds for believing that the latter may not be used in full. Any Member State applying this paragraph shall inform the Com­ mission of its grounds for so doing.
The second tranche of 14 000 tonnes shall con­
Where a Member State has used 90 % or more of
additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 20 shall be valid until 31 December f?8 3.
A Member State which, on 15 August
For the purposes of the application of this section, the concept of 'originating products' shall be deter­ mined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 802/68.
has not exhausted its initial share shall, not later than 1 Sep­ tember 43*43, return to the reserve any unused por­ tion in excess of 20 % of the initial amount. It may
Member States shall, not later than 1 September notify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 August and charged against the Community quota and of any portion of their initial share returned to the
D. Preserved pineapples, in slices, half slices or spirals
15 %, increased by the levy on sugar where the sugar content exceeds 17 % by weight in the case of prod­ ucts falling within subheading ex 20.06 B II a) 5 aa), and 19% by weight in the case of products falling within subheading ex 20.06 B II b) 5 aa).
Imports into Greece of the products referred to above shall be subject to the customs duties estab­ lished in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of Accession of 1979.
2. This tariff quota shall apply solely to products originating in the countries and territories listed in Annex B, with the exception of China. However, those imports already enjoying exemption from cus­ toms duties under other preferential tariff arrange­ ments granted by the Community may not be charged against this quota.
A first tranche of 25 760 tonnes shall be appor­
From 1 January to 31 December VVS?, a Com­
2. The second tranche of 2 800 tonnes shall consti­ tute the reserve.
1. where a Member State has used 90 % or more of its initial share as fixed in Article 24 (1), or of that
share minus any portion returned to the reserve pur­ suant to Article 27, it shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share, to the extent that the reserve so permits, equal to 10 % of its ini­ tial share rounded up, should the occasion arise, to the nearest unit.
2. Where a Member State, after exhausting its ini­ tial share, has used 90 % or more of the second share drawn by it, that Member State shall forthwith, under the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a third share, equal to 5 % of its initial share rounded up, should the occasion arise, to the. nearest unit.
3. Where a Member State, after exhausting its second share, has used 90 % or more of the third share drawn by it, that Member State shall, under the same conditions, draw a fourth share equal to the third. This process shall continue until the reserve has been exhausted.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares lower than those specified therein if there are grounds for believing
. that the latter may not be used in full. Any Member
munity tariff quota of 28 560 tonnes shall be opened by the Community for imports of preserved pine­ apples, in slices, half slices or spirals, falling within the following subheadings of the Common Customs Tariff: ex 20.06 B II a) 5, ex 20.06 B II b) 5, ex 20.06 B II c) 1 dd) and ex 20.06 B II c) 2 bb). Within this tariff quota, the customs duty shall be suspended at
tioned among the Member States. The shares for each Member State which, subject to Article 27, shall be valid until 31 December shall be as follows :
î.i W tonnes Hiltonnes Germany tonnes
Greece France Ireland Italy
 State applying this paragraph shall inform the Com­ mission of its grounds for so doing.
' H* omncfan* oÇ- »tV. 4* additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 2,5 shall
be valid until 31 December 44S3 .
A Member State which, on 15 September 1^83, has not exhausted its initial share shall, not later than
1 October M33 , return to the reserve any unused portion in excess of 20% , of the initial amount . It
mayreturnagreaterportion}erreK>rv» aparKoiAiv» . it H^are <*n* areowfe Qoc Iselievvwi H«*V
Member States shall, not later than 1 October ^ 83, notify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 September -/<?83 and charged against the Community quota and of any portion of their initial share returned to the reserve .
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 9, 10, 14, 15, 19, 20, 24 and 25 and shall, as soon as the information reaches it, inform each State of the
extent to which the reserves have been used up. It shall inform the Member States not later than :
The Member States shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that additional shares drawn
pursuant to Articles 10, 15, 20 and 25 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their cumulative shares of the Community quotas.
1. The Member States shall ensure free access to the shares allocated to them for importers of the said goods.
2. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined on the basis of
imports of the said goods which have been entered for free circulation and which are accompanied by a certificate of origin in accordance with the rules referred to in Articles 8, 13, 18 and 23.
3. Goods shall qualify for a tariff quota only if the certificate of origin referred to in paragraph 2 is sub­ mitted before the date on which the levying of duties is reintroduced .
Where the Commission so requests, and in any case at least monthly, the Member States shall inform it of imports of the products in question charged against their shares. This information shall show both the value expressed in ECU and the quantity expressed in tonnes.
Where the Community finds that imports of pro­ ducts benefiting from the treatment provided for in Articles 1, 3, 8, 13, 18 and 23 are imported into the Community in quantities or at prices which place or are likely to place Community producers of similar or directly competitive products at a serious dis­ advantage or create an unfavourable situation in the ACP States, the levying of customs duties applied within the Community may be reintroduced in whole or in part on imports of the products in ques­ tion from the country or countries or territory or territories which are the cause of such disadvantage. Such measures may also be taken in the event of
actual or potential serious disadvantage which is confined to a single region of the Community.
21 November 4483, of the amount still in the reserve following any return of shares pursuant to Article 12,
15 October 4183, of the amount still in the reserves following any return of shares pursuant to Articles 17 and 27 ,
15 September 4981, of the amount still in the reserve following any return of shares pursuant to Article 22.
It shall ensure that, when an amount exhausting a reserve is drawn, the amount so drawn does not exceed the balance available and shall to this end
notify the amount of that balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
1. The Commission may decide, by means of a Regulation, to reintroduce the levying of customs duties for a specified period, in order to ensure that Article31 isapplied.
2. Where action on the part of the Commission is requested by a Member State, the former shall give its decision within a period of not more than 10 working days from the date of receipt of the request and shall inform the Member State of this decision .
3. Each Member State may refer the measure taken by the Commission to the Council within a period
of 10 working days following the date on which it was notified. The fact that the matter is referred to the Council shall not cause the measure to be sus­ pended . The Council shall meet immediately . It may, acting on a qualified majority, amend or rescind the measure in question.
Articles 3 1 and 32 shall prejudice neither the appli­ cation of the safeguard clauses adopted under the common agricultural policy pursuant to Article 43 of the Treaty nor those adopted under the common commercial policy pursuant to Article 113 of the Treaty .
Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely to ensure compliance with this Regulation.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council The President
Meat and edible offals of the animals falling within heading No 01.01 , 01.02, 01.03 or 01.04, fresh, chilled or frozen :
b) Other
Other meat and edible meat offals, fresh, chilled or frozen : exA. Ofdomesticpigeons
ex B. Furred game, frozen
C. Other:
Fish, fresh (live or dead), chilled or frozen :
1. Whole, headless or in pieces :
Rate of duty
List of products falling within Chapters I to 24 originating in developing countries and territories to
which the generalized tariff preferences will apply QA
Live horses, asses, mules and hinnies : A. Horses :
II. For slaughter ^5.^ III . Other
Note: The terms expressed in the 'Rate of duty' column are explained under "Abbreviations at the end of this list.
^ Agricultural products qualifying under the ordinary arrangements for exemption or total tem­ porary suspension of the Common Customs Tariff are only token entries.
(Oy Entry under this subheading is subject to conditions to be determined by the competent authorities.
v) Other:
Rate of duty
Crustaceans and molluscs, whether in shell or not, fresh (live or dead), chilled, frozen, salted, in brine or dried; crustaceans, in shell, simply boiled in water:
«tA. 4 W M»'' C. Livers and roes
Fish , dried , salted or in brine ;
cooked before or during the smoking process :
Whole, headless or in pieces :
b) Other:
1. Whole
2. Other
Crabs and freshwater crayfish Shrimps and prawns :
a) Prawns (Pandalidae spp) c) Other:
Common halibut (Hippoglossus vulgaris) Salmon, salted or in brine
exd ) Other :
ex V. Other (for example Norway lobsters): – Peurullus spp
IV. Other:
aa ) Ommastrephes sagittatus and Loligo spp . . .
whether
2. Cuttle-fish of the species Sepia officinalis, Ros- sia macrosoma and Sepiola rondeleti
Rate of duty
4. Other....;
b) Other:
2. Other Natural honey
Edible products of animal origin, not elsewhere specified or included
Horsehair and horsehair waste, whether or not put up on a layer or between two layers of other material :
B, Other
Skins and other parts of birds, with their feathers or down, feath- ers and parts of feathers ( whether- or not with trimmed edges ) and down, not further worked than cleaned, disinfected or treated for preservation ; powder and waste of feathers or parts of feathers :
A. Bed feathers : down : II . Other
B. Other
Natural sponges : B. Other
Other live plants, including trees, shrubs, bushes, roots, cuttings and slips :
A. Unrooted cuttings and slips : . II. Other
ex D. Other:
– Trees and shrubs, excluding fruit- and forest-trees and shrubs; other live plants, cuttings and roots, excluding azaleas, roses, perennial plants and mushroom spawn .
Cut flowers and flower buds of a kind suitable for bouquets or for ornamental purposes, fresh, dried, dyed, bleached, impreg- nated or otherwise prepared :,
ex I. From 1 June to 31 October:
■ – Orchids (family Orchidaceae) and Anthurium . . exII. From1Novemberto31May:
– Orchids (family Orchidaceae) and Anthurium . .
ex B. Other:
Cut flowers, not further prepared than dried
Foliage, branches and other parts (other than flowers or buds) of trees, shrubs, bushes and other plants, and mosses, lichens and grasses, being goods of a kind suitable for bouquets or ornamen- tal purposes, fresh, dried, dyed, bleached, impregnated or other- wise prepared :
Rate of duty
Pumpkins, courges and courgettes, from 1 January to last day of February
Other, excluding celery sticks and parsley, from 1 January to 31 March
Manioc, arrowroot, salep, Jerusalem artichokes, sweet potatoes and other similar roots and tubers with high starch or inulin con­ tent , fresh or dried , whole or sliced ; sago pith :
B. Other
B. Other:
II. Not further prepared than dried III . Other
Vegetables , fresh or chilled :
Free Free 3%
Vegetables provisionally preserved in brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative solutions, but not specially prepared for imme- diate consumption :
ex E. Other vegetables :
Dried, dehydrated or evaporated vegetables, whole, cut. sliced, broken or in powder but not further prepared :
ex B. Other:
– Mushrooms , excluding cultivated mushrooms
Dried leguminous vegetables, shelled, whether or not skinned or split : ,
B. Other:
I. Peas (including chick peas) and beans (of the genus 'Phaseolus' ):
– Beans of the genus 'Phaseolus'
– Chick peas of the species 'Cicer arietinum' – Other
Other :
– Cajan peas of the species 'Cajanus cajan' – Other
Dates, bananas, coconuts, Brazil nuts, cashew nuts, pineapples, avocados, mangoes, guavas and mangosteens, fresh or dried, shelled or not :
Rate of duly
Free Free Free Free
H. Other:
Cjtrus fruit , fresh or dried : ex E. Other:
– Limes and limettes ( Citrus aurantifolia var . Lumio and var. Limetta)
Nuts other than those falling within heading No 08.01, fresh or dried , shelled or not :
F. Areca (or betel ) and cola
ex G. Other (excluding hazelnuts)
E. Papaws . . F. Other .'. .
Other fruit , fresh :
– Watermelons, from 1 November to 30 April – Other, excluding melons and watermelons .
Fruit (whether or not cooked), preserved by freezing, not contain­ ing added sugar :
Bilberries (fruit of the species Vaccinium myrtillus), black­ berries (brambleberries), mulberries and cloudberries
Fruit of the species Vaccinium myrtilloides and Vaccinium angustifolium
ex D. Other:
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.02 D, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
Fruit provisionally preserved (for example, by sulphur dioxide gas, in brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative solutionis), but unsuitable in that state for immediate consumption ) :
D. Bilberries (fruit of the species Vaccinium myrtillus) E. Other:
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.02 D, 08.08 Β and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and water- melons
Fruit, dried, other than that falling within heading Nos08.01, 08.02 , 08.03 , 08.04 or 08.05 :
E. Papaws ex G. Other:
Peel of melons and citrus fruit, fresh, frozen, dried or provision- ally preserved in brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative solutions
Coffee, whether or not roasted or free of caffeine: coffee husks and skins ; coffee substitutes containing coffee in any proportion : A. Coffee :
Rate of duty
Free Tree
C. Coffee substitutes containing coffee in any proportion
A. In immediate packings of a net capacity not exceeding 3 kg
Pepper of the genus 'Piper' ; pimento of the genus 'Capsicum' or the genus 'Pimenta' :
A. Neithercrushednorground:
b ) Other 11. Pimento: c) Other
B. Crushed or ground :
1. Pimento of the genus 'Capsicum' II. Other
b ) Free of caffeine II. Roasted:
a ) Not free of caffeine
b ) Free of caffeine B. Husks and skins
Cinnamon and cinnamon-tree flowers : A. Ground
B. Other
Cloves (whole fruit, cloves and stems)
Rate of duty
Thyme , saffron and bay leaves ; other spices : A. Thyme:
Flour of the dried leguminous vegetables falling within heading No 07.05 or of the fruits falling within any heading in Chapter 8 ; flour and meal of sago and of roots and tubers falling within heading No 07.06 :
A. Flour of the dried leguminous vegetables falling within head- ing No 07.05
B. Flour of the fruits falling within any heading in Chapter 8 : I. Ofbananas :
– Denatured ( a ) – Other
Nutmeg, mace and cardamoms :
A. Neither crushed nor ground :
II. Other:
B. Crushed or ground : I. Nutmeg
2. Other
Crushed or ground : I. Badian seed
III . Other
I. Neither crushed nor ground : b ) Other
II . Crushed or ground Bay leaves
Other spices , including the mixtures referred to this Chapter :
I. Neither crushed nor ground
II . Crushed or ground : b ) Other
Seeds of anise, badian, fennel, coriander, cumin, caraway and juniper :
A. Neithercrushednorground: I. Aniseed
III. Seeds of fennel, coriander, cumin, caraway and juniper: b) Other:
(a) Entry under this subheading is subject to conditions to be determined by the competent authorities. '
Rate of duty
Pectic ex I.
Other :
Plants and parts (including seeds and fruits) of trees, bushes, shrubs or other plants, being goods of a kind used primarily in perfumery, in pharmacy, or for insecticidal, fungicidal or similar purposes, fresh or dried, whole, cut, crushed, ground or pow­ dered :
Chicory roots, fresh or dried, whole or cut, unroasted; locust beans, fresh or dried, whether or not kibbled or ground, but not further prepared ; fruit kernels and other vegetable products of a kind used primarily for human food, not falling within any other heading :
I. Not decorticated, crushed or ground
II. Other
D. Apricot, peach and plum stones, and kernels thereof
Shellac, seed lac, stick lac and other lacs; natural gums, resins, gum-resins and balsams :
Vegetable saps and extracts; pectic substances, pectinates and pectates; agar-agar and other mucilages and thickeners, derived from vegetable products :
A. Vegetable saps and extracts :
Of pyrethrum and of the roots of plants containing rotenone
Intermixtures of vegetable extracts, for the manufacture of beverages or of food preparations
Other :
substances, pectinates and pectates :
Dry , excluding apple , pear and quince stances
sub­ Other, excluding apple, pear and quince pectic sub­
C. Agar-agar and other mucilages and thickeners derived from vegetable products :
II . Mucilages and thickeners extracted from locust beans or locust bean seeds
Vegetable materials of a kind used primarily for plaiting (for example, cereal straw, cleaned, bleached or dyed, osier, reeds, rushes, rattans, bamboos, raffia and lime bark):
II. Other
B. Cereal straw , cleaned , bleached or dyed .
Lard stearin, oleostearin and tallow stearin; lard oil, oleo-oil and tallow oil , not emulsified or mixed or prepared in any way :
A. Lard stearin and oleostearin : II. Other
B. Tallow oil for industrial uses, other than the manufacture of foodstuffs for human consumption (a)
Rate of duty
C. Other
Fats and oils , of fish and marine mammals , refined :
whether
I. Of a vitamin A content not exceeding 2 500 international units per gram
Wool grease and fatty substances derived therefrom (including lanolin ):
A. Wool grease , crude B. Other
Other animal oils and fats (including neat's foot oils and fats from bones or waste)
Fixed vegetable oils, fluid or solid, crude, refined or purified :
B. China-wood and oiticica oils; myrtle wax and Japan wax . . C. Castor oil :
II . Other D. Other oils :
For technical or industrial uses other than the manufac­ ture of foodstuffs for human consumption (a):
b) Other: ex 2.
Other :
2. Other
Other, excluding linseed oil, groundnut oil, sunflower seed oil and colza oil
Other:
Palm kernel and coconut oil
(a) Entry under this subheading is subject to conditions to be determined by the competent authorities .
Rate of duly
b) Other:
Solid , in immediate packings of a net capacity of 1 kg or less
Solid, other; fluid:
– Palm kernel and coconut oil
ex bb) Other:
– Palm kernel and coconut oil
Fatty acids : acid oils from refining ; fatty alcohols : A. Stearic acid
C. Other fatty acids ; acid oils from refining
Glycerol and glycerol lyes :
A. Crude glvcerol and glycerol lyes B. Other, including synthetic glycerol
Animal or vegetable oils and fats, wholly or partly hydrogenated, or solidified or hardened by any other process, whether or not refined , but not further prepared :
A. In immediate packings of a net capacity of 1 kg or less B. Other
Spermaceti, crude, pressed or refined, whether or not coloured; beeswax and other insect waxes, whether or not coloured :
A. Spermaceti, crude, pressed or refined, whether or not coloured B. Beeswax and other insect waxes, whether or not coloured :
II . Other
Vegetable waxes, whether or not coloured :
Degras : residues resulting from the treatment of fatty substances or animal or vegetable waxes :
Β. Residues resulting from the treatment of fatty substances or animal or vegetable waxes :
II. Other:
b ) Other
Other prepared or preserved meat or meat offal : A. Liver :
Crustaceans and molluscs , prepared or preserved : A Crabs
ex B. Other, excluding shrimps of the Crangon spp type
Rate of duty
3 % + vc with a max. of 23%
5 % 4- vc with a max. of 27%
7 % + vc with a max. of 27%
Meat extracts, meat juices and fish extracts, in immediate pack- ings of a net capacity of :
B. More than 1 kg but less than 20 kg
Prepared or preserved fish, including caviar and caviar substi­ tutes :
Other :
A. Caviar and caviar substitutes :
ex F. Bonito (Sarda spp) and mackerel G. Other:
I. Fillets , frozen
II. Other
coated with
11. Game or rabbit meat or offal : – Game
b) Other:
1. Containing bovine meat or offal :
exbb) Other:
– Prepared or preserved bovine tongue
2. Other:
aa) Of sheep or goats :
– Ofgoats bb) Other
A. Liquorice extract containing more than 10% by weight of suc­ rose but not containing other added substances
B. Chewing gum C. White chocolate
D Other
Cocoa paste (in bulk or in block), whether or not defatted Cocoa powder, unsweetened
Chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa :
A. Cocoa powder, not othefwise sweetened than by the addition of sucrose
C. Chocolate and chocolate goods, whether or not filled; sugar confectionery and substitutes therefor made from sugar sub­ stitution products, containing cocoa
Malt extract; preparations of flour, meal, starch of malt extract, of a kind used as infant food or for dietetic or culinary purposes, containing less than 50 % by weight of cocoa :
B. Other: '
I. Containing malt extract and not less than 30 % by weight of reducing sugars (expressed as maltose)
II. Other:
– Preparations based on flour of leguminous vegetables in the form of sun-dried discs of dough, known as 'papad'
– Other
Tapioca and sago, excluding tapioca and sago substitutes obtained from potato or other starches
Prepared foods obtained by the swelling or roasting of cereals or cereals products (puffed rice, corn flakes and similar products)
Bread, ships' biscuits and other ordinary bakers' wares, not con­ taining added sugar, honey, eggs, fats, cheese or fruit, commu­ nion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products : ·
C. Communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical use, sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products
D. Other
Pastry, biscuits, cakes and other fine bakers' wares, whether or not containing cocoa in any proportion :
A. Gingerbread and the like
Rate of duty
8 % + vc with a max. of 27%
3 % + vc with a maximum of
Free + vc with a maximum of
Vegetabres and fruit, prepared or preserved by vinegar or acetic acid, with or without sugar, whether or not containing salts, spices or mustard :
ex C. Other, excluding 'mixed pickles' and sweet peppers
Vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid :
ex H. Other, including mixtures :
Fruit preserved by freezing, containing added sugar: ex A. With a sugar content exceeding 13 % by weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.02 D, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
ex B. Other:
Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.02 D, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09 , excluding pineapples , melons and watermelons
Fruit, fruit-peel and parts of plants, preserved by sugar (drained, glace or crystallized):
B. Other:
ex II. Other:
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.02 D, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
Jams, fruit jellies, marmalades, fruit puree and fruit pastes, being cooked preparations, whether or not containing added sugar:
B. Jams and marmalades of citrus fruit :
ex I. With a sugar content exceeding 30% by weight, excluding orange jam and marmalade
With a sugar content exceeding 13 % by weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.02 D, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples,
melons and watermelons
C. Other : I.
With a sugar content exceeding 13 % but not exceed­ ing 30 % by weight, excluding orange jam and mar­ malade
Other, excluding orange jam and marmalade
With a sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight :
Fruit, otherwise prepared or preserved, whether or not containing added sugar or spirit :
A. Nuts (including grouiid-nuts), roasted, in immediate packings of a net capacity :
I. Ofmorethan1kg:
– Almonds, walnuts and hazelnuts – Other
– Almonds, walnuts and hazelnuts
– Other.'.
B. Other:
With a sugar content exceeding 13 % but not exceed- ing 30% by weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E
and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
Other:
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
Containing added spirit : a) Ginger
Pineapples, in immediate packings of a net capacity : 1. Ofmorethan1kg:
Other:
aa ) With a weight
17% by .
bb) Other
aa ) With a weight
bb) Other
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
1 . With a sugar content exceeding 13 % by weight . . 2. Other
Peaches, pears and apricots, in immediate packings of a net capacity :
1. Ofmorethan1kg:
aa) With a sugar content exceeding 13% by
weight bb) Other
aa) With a sugar content exceeding 15% by weight
bb) Other
Rale of duty
f) Mixtures of fruit :
1 . With a sugar content exceeding 9 % by weight ....
2. Other
Not containing added spirit :
a) Containing added sugar, in immediate packings of a net capacity of more than 1 kg :
e) Other fruits :
With a sugar content exceeding 9 % by weight. excluding cherries
Other, excluding cherries
Mandarins (including tangerines and satsu- mas); clementines, wilkings and other similar citrus hybrids
Other fruits :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons ....
Tamarind (pods, pulp) Mixtures of fruit :
Mixtures in which no single fruit exceeds 50 % of the total weight of the fruits :
– Mixtures of two or more fruits fall- ing within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding melons and water- melons
b) Containing added sugar, in immediate packings of a net capacity of 1 kg or less :
3. Mandarins (including tangerines and satsu- mas); clementines, wilkings and other similar citrus hybrids
ex8. Other fruits :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples,melonsandwatermelons ....
9. Mixtures of fruit :
ex aa) Mixtures in which no single fruit exceeds 50 % of the total weight of the fruits :
– Mixtures of two or more fruits fall- ing within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09 , excluding melons and water- melons
c) Not containing added sugar, in immediate packings of a net capacity :
Rate of duty
Other : ex a)
Of 4-5 kg or more :
Other fruit and mixtures of fruit :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Mixtures of two or more fruits falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding melons and watermelons, in which no single fruit exceeds 50 % of the total weight of the fruits
Other fruits :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
Mixtures of fruit :
– Mixtures of two or more fruits fall-
ing within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding melons and water- melons, in which no single fruit exceeds 50 % of the total weight of the fruits
Fruit juices (including grape must) and vegetable juices, whether or not containing added sugar, but unfermented and not contain­ ing spirit :
A. Of a specific gravity exceeding 1-33 at 15 °C :
Of a value exceeding 30 ECU per 100 kg net weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Fruit falling within subheading 08.02 D .... ' . .
Of a value not exceeding 30 ECU per 100 kg net weight :
With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Fruit falling within subheading 08.02 D
Other:
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Fruit falling within subheading 08.02 D
Rate of duty
a) Of a value exceeding 30 ECU per 100 kg net weight :
3. Lemon juice or other citrus fruit juices :
Containing added sugar: – Excluding lemon juice
Other:
aa) Containing added sugar bb) Other
6. Other fruit and vegetable juices :
Containing added sugar:
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons . .
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
Other:
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons. .
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices »
Other, excluding mixtures containing, either separately or together, over 25 % of grape, citrus fruit, pineapple, apple, pear, tomato, apricot or peach juice :
1 1. Containing added sugar . . . .· 22. Other
aa) With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight
bb) Other
4. Other citrus fruit juices :
aa) With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight
bb) With an added sugar content of 30 % or less by weight
cc) Not containing added sugar
aa) With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight
bb) With an added sugar content of 30 % or less by weight
cc) Not containing added sugar Other fruit and vegetable juices :
Rate of duty
Extracts, essences or concentrates, of coffee, tea or maté and pre- parations with a basis of those extracts, essences or concentrates : roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes and extracts. essences and concentrates thereof:
Essences or concentrates of coffee
Extracts, essences or concentrates of tea or maté and pre- parations with a basis of those extracts, essences or con- centrates
Roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes : 11. Other
ex.bb) Other, excluding mixtures containing. either separately or together, over 25 % of grape, citrus fruit, pineapple, apple, pear. tomato , apricot or peach juice :
1 1 . With an added sugar content exceed- ing 30 % by weight . . . ·.
22. With an added sugar content of 30 % or less by weight
33. Not containing added sugar
With an added sugar content exceeding 30% by weight :
– Of fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
ex bb) -With an added sugar content of 30% or less by weight :
– Of fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
Not containing added sugar:
– Of fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 Β, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
D. Extracts, essences and concentrates of roasted chicory and other roasted coffee substitutes :
11. Other
Mustard flour and prepared mustard :
A. Mustard flour, in immediate packings of a net capacity :
II. Ofmorethan 1 kg
B. Prepared mustard
Sauces ; mixed condiments and mixed seasonings :
Rate of duty
Free Free 8%
II Other
C. Prepared baking powders
Food preparations not elsewhere specified or included :
A. Cereals in grain or ear form, pre-cooked or otherwise pre- pared :
MI Other G. Other:
I. Containing no milkfats or containing less than 1-5% by weight of such fats :
Sauces with a basis of tomato purée Other:
Products with a tomato ketchup-basis
– Other, excluding sauces with a vegetable oil basis ....
Soups and broths, in liquid, solid or powder form : homogenized composite food preparations :
A. Soups and broths, in liquid, solid or powder form B. Homogenized composite food preparations
Natural yeasts (active or inactive); prepared baking powders : A. Active natural yeasts :
I. Culture yeast
11. Baker'syeast: a ) Dried
b ) Other Ill Other
Inactive natural yeasts :
1. In tablet, cube or similar form, or in immediate packings of a net capacity of 1 kg or less
Containing no sucrose or containing less than 5 % by weight of sucrose (including invert sugar expressed as sucrose ):
ex 1 . Containing no starch or less than 5% by weight of starch :
Rate of duty
1 - 30 ECU per hi per % vol of alcohol + 5 ECU per hi
Flours and meals, of meat, offals, fish, crustaceans or molluscs, unfit for human consumption, greaves:
B. Flours and meals of fish, crustaceans or molluscs
Bran, sharps and other residues derived from the sifting, milling or working of cereals or of leguminous vegetables :
Products of vegetable origin of a kind used for animal food, not elsewhere specified or included :
B. Other
Sweetened forage; other preparations of a kind used in animal feeding :
A. Fish or marine mammal solubles C. Other
Waters, including spa waters and aerated waters ; ice and snow : A. Spa waters, natural or artificial ; aerated waters
Lemonade, flavoured spa waters and flavoured aerated waters, and other non-alcoholic beverages, not including fruit and veget- able juices falling within heading No 20.07 :
Beer made from malt
Spirits (other than those of heading No 22.08); liqueurs and other spirituous beverages; compound alcoholic preparations (known as 'concentrated extracts' ) for the manufacture of beverages :
V. Other, in containers holding :
Two litres or less:
– Tequilla, Pisco and Singani
24.02 Manufactured tobacco ; tobacco extracts and essences :
C. Smoking tobacco
D. Chewing tobacco and snuff
E. Other, including agglomerated tobacco; in the form of sheets or strip
indicates that the goods referred to are subject to the levy system ;
Rate of duty
indicates that the goods referred to are subject to a charge based on a variable component which is specified under the regulations concerning trade in certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products ;
indicates that additional duty may be levied on the flour content of the products con­ cerned ;
indicates that additional duty may be levied on the sugar content of the products con­ cerned .
451 Antigua and Barbuda 528 Argentina
492 Surinam 393 Swaziland 608 Syria
680 Thailand 280 Togo
List of developing countries and territories enjoying generalized tariff preferences (*) I. INDEPENDENT COUNTRIES
( ' ) The code number preceding the name of each beneficiary country or territory is that given in 'Geonomenclature 1980* (Regulation(EEC)No2566/79–OJNoL294,21. 11. 1979,p.5).
dependent or administered, or for whose external relations Member States of the Community or third countries are wholly or partly responsible
802 Australian Oceania (Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Heard Island and McDon­ ald Islands, Norfolk Island)
357 British Indian Ocean Territory 703 Brunei
529 Falkland Islands and dependencies
476 Netherlands Antilles
809 New Caledonia and dependencies
814 New Zealand Oceania (Tokelau and Niue Islands ; Cook Islands )
890 Polar regions (French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Australian Antarctic Territories,
British Antarctic Territories) 329 St Helena and dependencies 454 Turks and Caicos Islands
457 Virgin Islands of the United States 811 Wallis and Futuna Islands
Note: The above lists may be amended subsequently to take account of changes in the inter­ national status of countries or territories .
(') American Oceania includes: Guam, American Samoa (including Swain's Island), Midway Islands, Johnston and Sand Islands, Wake Island and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (the Caroline, Marianas and Marshall Islands).
mules and hinmes
or frozen
Other meat and edible meat offals, salted, in brine, dried or smoked Fish, crustaceans and molluscs
List of products mentioned in Article 1 (3)
Pure-bred breeding
Other live animals
Meat of horses , asses , mules and hinnies ,
Meat of swine, other than domestic swine, fresh, chilled or frozen
Offals of horses , asses , mules and hinnies , fresh , Offals of bovine animals , fresh , chilled or frozen
chilled or
or frozen
or smoked or smoked
chilled or frozen
meat offals , fresh , chilled
Other
Other
Offals of bovine animals , salted , in brine , dried Offals of sheep and goats , salted , in brine , dried
and edible
salted , in brine or dried
a) Entry under this subheading is subject to conditions to be determined by tue competent authorities
 Eggs in shell, other than poultry eggs, fresh or preserved Natural honey
Edible products of animal origin, not elsewhere specified or includec Products of animal oriqin, not elsewhere specified or included
Live trees and other plants ; bulbs, roots and the like ; cut flowers and ornamental foliage
Potatoes , fresh or chilled
Lequminous vegetables, shelled or unshelled, fresh or chilled
Sweet peppers , fresh or chilled
Other vegetables, fresh or chilled
Other veqetables (whether or not cooked), preserved by freezing Vegetables provisionally preserved in brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative solutions, but notspecially prepared for immediate consumption , excluding olives ( 07.03 A)
Onions , dried , dehydrated or evaporated , whole , cut , sliced , broken or in powder, but not further prepared
Other broken Dried
dried , dehydrated or evaporated or in powder , but not further leguminous veqetables , shelled ,
vegetables , whole , cut , sliced , prepared , excluding olives
whether or not skinned or solit
Dates , bananas , coconuts , Brazil nuts , cashew nuts , pineapples , avocados, mangoes, guavas and mangosteens, fresh or dried, shelled or not
Other Citrus fruit, fresh or dried
Areca Cor betel ) and cola , fresh or dried ,
Other fruit, fresh
Fruit ( whether or not
added sugar
Fruit provisionally preserved
brine , in sulphur water or in
unsuitable in that state for immediate consumption
Fruit, dried, other than that falling within heading No 08.01, 08.02, 08.03, 08.04 or 08.05
Peel of melons and citrus fruit, fresh, frozen, dried, or provisionally preserved in brine, in sulphur water or in other preservative solutions
Coffee, tea, mate and spices
Rice for sowing (a)
Flour of dried leguminous vegetables falling within heading No 07.05
Flour of the fruits falling within any heading in Chapter 8
Flour, meal and flakes of potato Inulin
preserved by freezing , not
(a) Entry under this subheading is subject to conditions to be determined by the competent authorities
( for example , by sulphur
other preservative solutions ), but
Oil seeds and oleaginous fruit ; miscellaneous grains, seeds and fruit ; industrial and medical plants ; straw and fodder ; excluding sugar beet and sugar cane falling within heading No 12.04
Lacs ; gums ; resins and other vegetable saps and extracts
Vegetable plaiting materials ; vegetable products not elsewhere specified or included
Fats of bovine cattle , sheep or goats , unrendered ; rendered or solvent-extracted fats (including "premier jus") obtained from those unrendered fats
Lard stearin , oleastearin and tallow stearin ; lard-oil , oleo-oil and tallow oil, not emulsified or mixed or prepared in any way Fats and oils, of fish and marine mammals, whether or not refined
Wool grease and fatty substances derived therefrom (including lanolin )
Other bones
animal oils and fats (including neat's-foot oil and fats frorn or waste )
vegetable oils, fluid or solid, crude, refined or purified,
excluding olive oil falling within subheading No 15.07 A
Animal and vegetable oils , boiled , oxidised , dehydrated , sulphurised, blown or polymerised by heat in vacuum or in inert gas , or otherwise modified
15.10 Fatty acids ; acid oils from refining ; fatty alcohols
15.11 Glycerol and glycerol lyes
15.12 Animal or vegetable oils and fats, wholly or partly hydrogenated,
or solidified or hardened by any other process, whether or not
refined , but not further prepared
15.13 Margarine, imitation lard and other prepared edible fats (c*)
15.15 Spermaceti , crude , pressed or refined , whether or not coloured ;
beeswax and other insect waxes, whether or not coloured
(cO In certain conditions, the collection of a compensatory amount is provided for in addition to the customs duty
Vegetable waxes , whether or not coloured
Residues resulting from the treatment of fatty substances or animal or vegetable waxes, excluding products falling within subheading
Other prepared or preserved liver of goose or ducks
Other prepared or preserved meat of meat offal of game or rabbit Other prepared or preserved meat or meat offal, containing
bovine meat or offal, other products than those falling within subheading No 16.02 B III b) 1 aa)
III b) 2 Other prepared or preserved meat or meat offal
Meat extracts, meat juices and fish extracts
Prepared or preserved fish, including caviar and caviar substitutes Crustaceans and molluscs , prepared or preserved
Sugar confectionery , not containing cocoa
Cocoa and cocoa preparations
Preparations of cereals, flour or starch ; pastrycooks' products Preparations of vegetables, fruit or other parts of plants excluding products falling within subheadings No 20.07 A I a),
and B I b) 1 bb) 22
Miscellaneous edible preparations , excluding sugar syrups falling within subheading No 21.07 F
Beverages , spirits and vinegar , excluding products falling within headings and subheadings No 22.04 , 22.05 , 22.07 A and 22.09 C I
Flours and meals , of meat , offals , fish , crustaceans or molluscs , unfit for human consumption ; greaves
Bran, sharps and other residues derived from the sifting, milling or working of leguminous vegetables
Products of vegetable origin of a kind used for animal food,
not elsewhere specified or included, other than those falling within subheading No 23.06 A
Sweetened forage ; other preDarations of a kind used in animal feeding : fish or marine mammal solubles
Sweetened forage ; other preparations of a kind used in animal
feedinn, other than those products falling within subheadings no. 23.07 A and B
306 Central African Republic 244 Chad
311 Sao Tome and Principe
355 Seychelles and dependencies 342 Somalia
List of least-developed developing countries
In agreement with the Commission,
in this Decision shall be subject to conformity with the concept of 'originating products' as determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 14 of Regulation (EEC) No 802/68 ('). How­ ever, the Community preference arrangements prov­ ided for in this Decision shall cease to apply to Yugoslavia from the time the Agreement with that country concerning products within the province of the ECSC enters into force.
4. The Community tariff quotas and ceilings shall be administered in accordance with the provisions set out below.
Provisions concerning the administration of the Community tariff quotas relating to products listed in Annex A
The total suspension of customs duties within the limits of the Community tariff quotas referred to in Article 1(1 ) shall be accorded to each country or ter­ ritory listed in column 4 of Annex A in respect of the products indicated against its name in columns 2 and 3 together with details in column 5 of the amount of the individual quotas .
1. The Member States shall administer their tariff quotas in accordance with their own provisions in this respect.
2. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined on the basis of imports of the goods in question which have been
1. From 1 January to 31 December 1983% the cus­ toms duties applicable to the products listed in Annexes A and B shall be totally suspended within the framework of tariff quotas and ceilings.
Imports into Greece of the products referred to above shall be subject to the customs duties estab­ lished in accordance with Article 117 of the Act of Accession of 1979.
2. The arrangements provided for in paragraph 1 shall apply solely :
– in all customs areas of the Community, to each of the countries or territories listed in column 4
of Annex A against each category of products listed in columns 2 and 3,
– in the Community, to each of the other coun­ tries or territories listed in Annex C, for the same categories of products,
– in the Community, to each of the countries or territories listed in Annex C for the other cate­
gories of products in Annex A and, considered individually, for each of the categories of prod­ ucts listed in Annex B,
subject to observance of the concept of originating products .
3 . Imports exempt from customs duties under other preferential tariff arrangements granted by the Community may not be charged against these tariff quotas or ceilings. Preferential entry as provided for
of . . .
applying for 1983 the generalized tariff preferences for certain steel products originating in developing countries
 entered for free circulation, on the basis of the cus­ toms value of the said goods, and which are accom­ panied by a certificate of origin in accordance with the rules referred to in Article 1 (2).
Each Member State shall re-introduce the levying of duties which have been suspended in respect of a country or territory listed in column 4 of Annex A as soon as it finds that the charges against its national quota of the products concerned originating in that country or territory have reached the amount laid down in column 6 of Annex A.
Provisions concerning the administration of the Community tariff ceilings relating to the products listed in Annexes A and B
the Community, reintroduce the levying of the cor­ responding duties on imports of the products in question from each of the countries or territories concerned until the end of the period referred to in Article 1 (1).
2. Within the framework of the foregoing provi­ sions, the Commission shall coordinate the proce­ dures for reintroducing normal customs duties, in particular by notifying the date common to the whole of the Community and directly applicable in each Member State. This notification shall be pub­ lished in the Official Journal of the European Com­ munities.
3. However, paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to the countries listed in Annex D.
The extent to which ceilings and maximum amounts have been used up shall be determined at Commu­ nity level on the basis of imports charged in the manner laid down in Article 8 (1) and (2).
2. Goods may be charged against a ceiling or admitted under a tariff quota only if the certificate of origin referred to in paragraph 1 is presented before the date on which the levying of duties is reintroduced .
sion, the
Subject to Articles 6 and 7, the preferential tariff
ceiling arrangements shall be accorded :
– for products in Annex A, to each of the coun­ tries or territories listed in Annex C, other than those which may be listed in column 4 of Annex A, within the limits of the amounts specified in column 7 of Annex A, against each category of products,
– for products in Annex B, to the countries or ter­ ritories listed in Annex C, considered indivi­ dually, within the limits of a Community ceiling equal to the highest maximum amount valid for 1980 under each of the preferential ceilings opened for that year.
The individual ceiling thus established shall be increased by 2 % to take account of the application by Greece of Community tariff preferences.
1. As soon as the individual ceilings fixed or cal­ culated in accordance with the provisions of Article 5, which are laid down for imports into the Community, under the conditions which it shall determine, of products originating in any of the countries or territories referred to in Article 1 (2), are reached at Community lev,41, the Member States may at any time, at the request of any one of them or of the Commission and in respect of the whole of
Imports of the products in question shall be
charged against the quota shares and Community ceilings as and when the products are entered for free circulation, on the basis of the customs value of the said products, and are accompanied by a certifi­ cate of origin in accordance with the rules laid down in Article 1 (2).
3. For the purposes of the application of this Deci­
provided for in the Common Customs
amendment to the list of beneficiaries, in
particular by the addition of new countries or terri-
 tones, may entail a corresponding adjustment to Community tariff quotas or ceilings .
1. Every three months, the Member States shall forward to the Statistical Office of the European Communities the information relating to imports under this Decision, in accordance with the provi­ sions of the nomenclature of goods for external trade statistics of the Community and statistics of trade between Member States (NIMEXE).
2. However, in the case of products in Annex A subject to quotas, the Member States shall, by the 1 1th day of each month at the latest, forward the list of charges effected during the previous month. In the case of products of Annex A subject to ceilings, the Member States shall forward to the Commission, at its request and under the same conditions, the list
of charges effected during the previous month.
At the Commission's request, when the level of 75 % of the ceiling is reached, the Member States shall
forward the lists of charges to the Commission every 10 days ; these lists shall be forwarded within five
days of the end of each 10-day period.
The Member States shall, in close cooperation with the Commission, take all necessary measures to ensure that this Decision is applied .
The Member States shall take all measures neces­ sary for the implementation of this Decision .
This Decision shall enter into force on 1 January 19&3
For the Council The President
Blooms, billets, slabs and sheet bars (including tinplate bars), of iron or steel ; pieces roughly shaped by forging, of iron or steel : ■
Iron or steel coils for re-rolling
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of shares allocated to Member States
ing for countries or territories otherthan those under column 4
List of products subject to zero doty Community preferential tariff quotas and ceilings (a)
Community tariff quotas
(a) Preferences are not granted in respect of the products, marked with an asterisk, originating in China.
Beneficiary Individual countries or quota
ing for countries or territories otherthan those under column 4
Amount of shares allocated to Member Stales
Bars and rods (including wire rod), of iron or steel, hot- rolled, forged, extruded, cold-formed or cold-finished (in- cluding precision-made); hollow mining drill steel :
A. Not further worked than hot-rolled or extruded
D. Clad or surface-worked (for example, polished, coated): I. Not further worked than clad :
a) Hot-rolled or extruded
Angles, shapes and sections, of iron or steel, hot-rolled, forged, extruded, cold-formed or cold-finished ; sheet piling of iron or steel, whether or not drilled, punched or made from assembled elements :
A. Angles, shapes and sections:
I. ' Not further worked than hot-rolled or extruded
IV. Clad or surface-worked (for example, polished, coated ):
a) Not further worked than clad : 1 . Hot rolled or extruded
Community tariff quotas
territories amount (ECU) otherthanthose
Sheets and plates, of iron or steel, hot-rolled or cold-rolled : A. 'Electrical' sheets and plates
B. Othersheetsandplates:
I. Not further worked than hot-rolled
II. Not further worked than cold-rolled, of a thickness of:
b) More than 1 mm but less than 3 mm
III. Not further worked than burnished, polished or glazed
IV. Clad , coated or otherwise surface-treated :
c) Zinc-coated or lead-coated
d) Other (for example, copper-plated, artificially oxidized, lacquered, nickel-plated, varnished, clad, parkerized, printed)
V. Otherwise shaped or worked :
a) Cut into shapes other than rectangular shapes, but not further worked :
2. Other
Amount of shares allocated to
ing for countries or territories
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary countries or territories
Amount of shares allocated tc Member Slates
ing for countries or territories otherthan those under column 4
Alloy steel and high carbon steel in the forms mentioned in Brazil
heading Nos 73.06 to 73.14: A. High carbon steel :
I. Ingots, blooms, billets, slabs and sheet bars : b) Other:
2. Blooms, billets, slabs and sheet bars III. Coilsforre-rolling
V. Bars and rods (including wire rod) and hollow mining drill steel ; angles , shapes and sections :
b) Not further worked than hot-rolled or extruded
d) Clad or surface-worked (for example, polished, coated ):
1 . Not further worked than clad : aa ) Hot-rolled or extruded
Hoop and strip :
a) Not further worked than hot-rolled
c) Clad, coated or otherwise surface-treated :
1 . Not further worked than clad : aa) Hot-rolled
Community tariff quotas
Beneficiary . countriesor
Amount of shares allocated t MemberStates
VII . Sheets and plates :
a) Not further worked than hot-rolled
b) Notfurtherworkedthancold-rolled,ofathick- ness of:
2. Less than 3 mm
c) Polished, clad, coated or otherwise surface- treated
d) Otherwiseshapedorworked:
1. Cut into shapes other than rectangular shapes, but not further worked
I. Ingots, blooms, billets, slabs and sheet bars:
b) Other:
2. Blooms, billets, slabs and sheet bars
III. Coils for re-rolling IV. Universal plates
V. Bars and rods (including wire rod) and hollow mining drill steel ; angles, shapes and sections :
b) Notfurtherworkedthanhot-rolledorextruded
d) Clad or surface-worked (for example, polished, coated):
1. Not further'worked than clad : aa) Hot-rolled or extruded
Community tariff quotas
Individual ceil- ing for countries orterritories otherthan those under column 4
Beneficiary oountries or territories
Amount of shares allocated tc Member States
VI. Hoop and strip:
a) Not further worked than hot-rolled
c) Clad, coated or otherwise surface-treated :
1 . Not further worked than clad : aa) Hot-rolled
VII . Sheets and plates :
a) 'Electrical' sheets and plates
b) Other sheets and plates :
I . Not further worked than hot-rolled
2. Not further worked than cold-rolled, of a thickness of:
bb) Less than 3 mm
3. Polished, clad, coated or otherwise surface- treated
4. Otherwise shaped or worked :
aa) Cut into shapes other than rectangular shapes, but not further worked
Community tariff quotas
or territories other than those undercolumn 4
Universal plates of iron or steel
Hoop and strip, of iron or steel, hot-rolled or cold-rolled: A. Not further worked than hot-rolled
B. Not further worked than cold-rolled :
I. In coils for the manufacture of tinplate . C. Clad, coated or otherwise surface-treated :
V. Other (for example, copper-plated, artificially oxidized, lacquered, nickel-plated, varnished, clad, parkerized, printed):
a) Not further worked than clad :
Railway and tramway track construction material of iron or steel, the following: rails, check-rails, switch blades, crossings (or frogs), crossing pieces, point rods, rack rails, sleepers, fish-plates, chairs, chair-wedges, sole plates (base plates), rail clips, bedplates, ties, and other material specialized for joining or fixing rails :
II. Other
D. Fish-plates and sole plates :
List of products in respect of which the Common Customs Tariff duties are completely suspended under the generalized tariff preferences granted to developing countries and territories
4SI Antigua and Barbuda 528 Argentina
306 Central African Republic (2) 244 Chad (2)
List of developing countries and territories enjoying generalized tariff preferences ( ' ) I. INDEPENDENT COUNTRIES
(l) The code number preceding the name of each beneficiary country or territory is that given in 'Geonomenclature 1980 (Regulation (EEC) No 2566/79 – OJ No L 294, 21.11.1979, p. 5).
(2) This country is also included in Annex D.
Sao Tome and Principe (2) Saudi Arabia
Seychelles and dependencies (!) Sierra Leone
dependent or administered, or for whose external relations Member States of the Community or third countries are wholly or partly responsible
802 Australian Oceania (Christmas Island, Cocos (Keeling) Islands, Heard Island and
357 British Indian Qcean Territory 703 Brunei
529 Falkland Islands and dependencies
476 Netherlands Antilles
809 New Caledonia and dependencies
814 New Zealand Oceania (Tokelau und Niue Islands ; Cook Islands)
890 Polar regions (French Southern and Antarctic Territories, Australian Antarctic Territories,
British Antarctic Territories) 329 St Helena and dependencies 454 Turks and Caicos Islands
457 Virgin Islands of the United States 81 1 Wallis and Futuna Islands
Note: The above lists may be amended subsequently to take account of changes in the inter­ national status of countries or territories.
(') American Oceania includes: Guam, American Samoa (including Swaiii'ijsland), Midway Islands, Johnston and Sand Islands, Wake Island and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (the Caroline, Marianas and Marshall Islands).
306 Central African Republic 244 Chad
List of least-developed developing countries
3" Sao Tome and Principe
355 Seychelles and dependencies 342 Somalia
