I. Directions générales responsables !
I. Directions générales responsables :
I. Directions générales responsables :
Commission communication to the Council
Under the 1973/74 food aid programme for the Sahel countries, theCommunityhaddeoidedtogrant10000metriotonsofoerealB '
to the Republic of Chad.
These products were to be distributed free of oharge, and the transportation oosts to the distribution centres were payable by the Community.
Because of congestion at the ports of unloading and of other
shipments in progress^, delivery of these amounts wa^» delayed at the request of the Chad authorities, and was made in severed instalments between October 1974 and January 1975* These oerealB were distributed in the deficit areas with the exception of
5 500 metric tons
N'Djamena pending transportation to these areas. It should be noted in this connection that these areas were better supplied this year because of a larger millet and sorghum crop, of which approximately 10 000 metric tons were bought in the South and transported to the North as part of an operation organized with the assistance of the WPP.
There are increased difficulties, on the other hand, in supplying the areas with imported cereals, particularly wheat, because of chronio transport difficulties between Nigeria or Cameroon and Chad. As a result, although orders were placed with foreign suppliersseveralmonthsago, stooksofflourwillsoonbeexhausted
In particular 6 000 metrio tons from the EEC under the 1972/73 programme .
Including 3 600 metrio tons of wheat, 570 metrio tons of maize
and 1 2^0 metrio tons of sorghum.
which are currently held in Btock at
For these reasons the Chad authorities have requested authorization from the Community to sell the 3 600 metric tons of wheat from the ESC at present held in stock in N'Djamena, instead of distributing
them free of charge as provided for in the supply agreement) in order to guarantee normal supplies of flour on the Cliad market. It should be pointed out that General Malloum, President of the Conseil Sup^rieur Militaire, personally approached the Commission's Delegate in Chad to stress the importance which he attached to this request in view of the circumstances described above.
The Chad authorities proposed the following arrangements for this operation ,
The wheat will be sold at the offioial prices ruling in Chad, i.e.CFAF50/Kg. TheproceedsareexpectedtoamounttoCFAF 1^0 million (approximately 530 000 u.a.), which will be held in a special blocked aocount and used for a development project , the details of which will be forwarded to the Community in the very
In view of the particularly difficult situation with which the Chad authorities are faced, and as it is understood that food supplies from other sources are guaranteed for those sections of the population affected by the crisis, the Commission considers that the Community should grant this request.
This operation would have the added advantage that the Community's responsibility would not extend beyond N'Djamena, thus avoiding additional storage and transport costs in the country.
Accordingly, the Commission proposes that the Council s
- authorize the sale of 3 600 metric tons of wheat from the
10 000 metrio tons of cereals delivered to the Republio of
Chad under the 1973/74 food aid programme (cereals);
- amend to this effect, by an exchange of letters*, the supply
agreement signed with that country;
- authorize the advance implementation of this operation*
The draft of which is annexed. %
on the conclusion of the Agreement amending the Agreement of 18 December 1974 between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Chad*
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 113» 114 and 228 thereof}
Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission;
Whereas the European Economic Community has concluded the seoond Food Aid Convention (l);
Whereas an Agreement (2) between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Chad on the supply of 10 000 metric tons of cereals for free distribution to needy sections of population was signed on 18 Deoember 1974)
Whereas the Republic of Chad has requested that, in view of the difficulties in the supply situation of wheat flour in Chad, the 3 600 metrio tons of wheat supplied as part of this gift may be sold;
Whereas in order to grant this request certain Artioles of the Agreement of 18 December 1974 must be amended,
The Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the European Economio Community and the Republic of Chad, the text of which is annexed to this Deoision, is hereby concluded on behalf of the Community.
The President of the Council is hereby authorized to designate the persons empowered to sign the Agreement and to confer on them the powers required to bind the Community.
For the Council The Président
in form of an exchange of letters between the European Economic Community
and the Republic of Chad modifying oertain articles in the Agreement reached.
A. Letter from the European Economic Community
With reference to the Agreement of 18 December 1974 between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Chad on the supply of 10 000 metric
tons of cereals for free distribution to needy seotions of population^ and the request by the Republic of Chad that in view of the difficulties in the
supply situation of wheat flour in Chad on the looal market the European Economic Community authorize the sale of 3 600 metric tons of wheat inoluded in this gift, I have the honour to propose to you the following amendments to the abovementioned Agreement :
1* The following shall be substituted for Article V :
The country of destination undertakes to use the products reoeived as aid for purposes of consumption and to distribute them free to people in need, with the exception of 3 600 metric tons of soft wheat which may be sold on the
market of the recipient country at prices comparable with those normally
charged for products of similar quality.
The proceeds from this sale, less the cost of sea transport, insurance
and the normal cost of selling the product on the recipient country's market, will be paid into a special acoount and allocated to the finanoing of one or more development schemes which have already been proposed by the recipient country and approved by the European Economio Community.
2. The following shall be substituted for Artiole VIII :
The reoipient country undertakes to inform the European Economio Community how this Agreement is being implemented. To this end it shall provide the Commission of the European Communities with the following information t
l) Every three months until the quantities received as aid haw been fully used :
a) number and description of recipients, the quantities distributed,
and where and how they were distributed. \
b) quantities sold, how they have been sold, selling prices ) normal selling oosts on the reoipient country's market)
 2) On 15 January every year until the speoial aocount has been fully used 1
a) State of this account (incomings and outgoings) on 31 Seoeaber %
of the preceding yeart
b) Progress achieved in the projeot or projects, with an indication of the total amount of financing undertaken at that stage*
I shall be obliged if you will inform me whether your Government canagrw to the above.
W^eamm accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration*
For the Council
of the European Counmitiea "
B. Letter from the Republic of Chad.
I have the honour to acknowledge of your letter of reading as follows :
With reference to the Agreement of 18 December 1974 between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Chad on the supply of 10 000 metric
tons of cereals for free distribution to needy sections of population^ and
the request by the Republic of Chad that in view of the difficulties in the
supply situation of wheat flour in Chad on the local market the European
Economic Community authorize the sale of 3 600 metric tons of wheat included
in this gift, I have the honour to propose to you the following amendments to
the abovementioned Agreement :
1. The followir^ shall be substituted for Article V :
The country of destination undertakes to use the products reoeived as aid for purposes of consumption and to distribute them free to people in need, with the exception of 3 600 metric tons of soft wheat which may be sold on the market of the recipient country at prices comparable with those normally charged for products of similar quality.
The proceeds from this sale, less the cost of sea transport, insurance
and the normal cost of selling the product on the recipient country's market, will be paid into a special account and allocated to the financing of one or more development schemes which have already been proposed by the recipient country and approved by the European Economio Community.
2. The following shall be substituted for Article VIII :
The recipient country undertakes to inform the European Economic Community how this Agreement is being implemented. To this end it shall provide the Commission of the European Communities with the following information :
l) Every three months until the quantities received as aid have been fully used :
a) numbdr and description of recipients, the quantities distributed, and where and how they were distributed.
b ) quantities said , how they have been sold , selling prices } normal selling costs on the recipient country 's market j
2) On 15 January every year until the special account has been fully . used: •, ... ,. a) State of this account (incomings and outgoings) on 31 December ,
of the preceding year; J".
b) Progress achieved in the project or projects, with an indication of the total amount of financing undertaken at that stage.
I shall be obliged if you will inform me whether your Government,panagree to the
I have the honour to inform you that the Government of the Republio of Chad agrees to the amendments proposed in your letter.
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.
For the Government
of the Republio of Chad
on the conclusion of the Agreement amending the Agreement of 18 December 1974 between the
European Economic Community and. the Republic of Chad
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
 Commission communication to the Council
Under the 1973/74 food, aid programme for the Sahel countries, the Community had decided to grant 10 000 metric tons of cereals to the Republic of Chad.
These products were to be distributed free of charge, and the transportation costs to the distribution centres were payable by the Community.
Because of congestion at the ports of unloading and of other shipments in progress^, delivery of these amounts was delayed
at the request of the Chad authorities, and was made in several instalments between October 1974 and January 1975* These cereals were distributed in the deficit areas with the exception of
5 500 metric tons
N'Djamena pending transportation to these areas. It should be noted in this connection that these areas were better supplied this year because of a larger millet and sorghum crop, of which approximately 10 000 metric tons were bought in the South and transported to the North as part of an operation organized with the assistance of the WFP.
which are currently held in stock at
There are increased difficulties, on the other hand, in supplying the areas with imported cereals, particularly wheat, because of chronic transport difficulties between Nigeria or Cameroon and Chad. As a result, although orders were pl'aced with foreign suppliers several months ago , stocks of flour will soon be exhausted
In particular 6 000 metric tons from the EEC under the 1972/73 programme .
Including 3 600 metric tons of wheat , 570 metric tons of maize and 1 250 metric tons of sorghum.
For these reasons the Chad authorities have requested authorization from the Community to sell the 3 600 metric tons of wheat from the EEC at present held in stock in N'Djamena, instead of distributing
them free of charge as provided for in the supply agreement, in order to guarantee normal supplies of flour on the Chad market. It should he pointed out that General Malloum, President of the Conseil Superieur Militaire, personally approached the Commission's Delegate in Chad to stress the importance which he attached to this
request xn view of the circumstances described above.
The Chad authorities proposed the following arrangements for this operation :
The wheat will be sold at the official prices ruling in Chad, i.e. CFAF 50/Kg. The proceeds are expected to amount to CPAP 150 million (approximately 530 000 u.a.), which will be held in
, a special blocked account and used for a development project , the details of which will be forwarded to the Community in the very near future.
In view of the particularly difficult situation with which the Chad authorities are faoed, and as it is understood that food supplies from other sources are guaranteed for those sections of the population affected by the crisis, the Commission oonsiders that the Community should grant this request.
This operation would have the added advantage that the Community's responsibility would not extend beyond N'Djamena, thus avoiding additional storage and transport costs in the country.
Accordingly, the Commission proposes that the Council :
- authorize the sale of 3 600 metric tons of wheat from the
10 000 metric tons of cereals delivered to the Republic of l
Chad under the 1973/74 food aid programme (cereals);
- amend to this effect, by an exchange of letters^", the supply
agreement signed with that country;
- authorize the advance implementation of this operation.
The draft of which is annexed.
on the conclusion of the Agreement amending the Agreement of 18 December 1974 between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Chad.
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 113 , 114 and 228 thereof ;
Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission;
Whereas the European Economic Community has concluded the second Pood Aid Convention (l); '
Whereas an Agreement (2) between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Chad on the supply of 10 000 metric tons of cereals for free . distribution to needy sections of population was signed on 18 December 1974?
Whereas the Republic of Chad has requested that, in view of the difficulties in the supply situation of wheat flour in Chad, the 3 600 metric tons of wheat supplied as part of this gift may be sold;
Whereas in order to grant this request certain Articles of the Agreement of 18 December 1974 must be amended,
The Agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Chad, the text of which is annexed to this Decision, is hereby concluded on behalf of the Community.
The President of the Council is hereby authorized to designate the persons empowered to sign the Agreement and to confer on them the powers required to bind the Community.
Por the Council The Président
in form of an exchange of letters between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Chad modifying certain articles in the Agreement reached.
A. Letter from the European Economic Community
With reference to the Agreement of 18 December 1974 between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Chad on the supply of 10 000 metric
tons of cereals for free distribution to needy sections of population and the request by the Republic of Chad that in view of the difficulties in the supply situation of wheat flour in Chad on the local market the European Economic Community authorize the sale of 3 600 metric tons of wheat included in this gift, I have the honour to propose to you the following amendments to the abovementioned Agreement :
1. The followirgshall be substituted for Article V :
The country of destination undertakes to use the products received as aid for purposes of consumption and to distribute thera free to people in need, with the exception of 3 600 metric tons of soft wheat which may be sold on the market of the recipient country at prices comparable with those normally charged for products of similar quality.
The proceeds from this sale, less the cost of sea'transport, insurance I\
and the normal cost of selling the product on the recipient country's market, will be paid into a special account and allocated to the financing of one or more development schemes which have already been proposed by the recipient country and approved by the European Economic Community.
2. The following shall be substituted for Article VIII :
The recipient country undertakes to inform the European Economic Community how this Agreement is being implemented. To this end it shall provide the Commission of the European Communities with the following information :
l) Every three months until the quantities received as aid have been
fully used :
a) number and description of recipients, the quantities distributed, and where and how they were distributed. '
b) Quantities sold, how they have been sold, selling prices; normal selling costs on the recipient country's market:
2) On 15 January every year until the special account has been fully used :
a) Stat$ of this account (inoomings and outgoings) on 31 December of the preceding year;
b) Progress achieved in the project or projects, with an indication of the total amount of financing undertaken at that stage.
I shall be obliged if you will inform me whether your Government can agree to the above .
Please accept. Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.
For the Council
of the European Commuaities
B. Letter from the Republic of Chad.
I have the honour to acknowledge of your letter of reading as follows :
With reference to the Agreement of 18 December 1974 between the European
Economi'c Community and the Republic of Chad on the supply of 10 000 metric
tons of cereals for free distribution to needy sections of population, and I*
the request by the Republic of Chad that in view of the difficulties in the supply situation of wheat flour in Chad on the local market the European Economic Community authorize the sale of 3 600 metric tons of wheat included in -this gift , I have the honour to propose to you the following amendments to
the abovementioned Agreement :
1. The followii^ shall be substituted for Article V :
The country of destination undertakes to use the products received as aid for purposes of consumption and to distribute them free to people in need, with the exception of 3 600 metric tons of soft wheat which may be sold on the market of the recipient country at prices comparable with those normally charged for products of similar quality.
The proceeds from this sale,' less the cost of sea transport, insurance
and the normal cost of selling the product on the recipient country's market, will be paid into a special account and allocated to the financing of one or more development schemes which have already been proposed by the recipient country and approved by the European Economic Community.
2. The following shall be ^substituted for Artiole VIII :
The recipient country undertakes to inform the European Economic Community how this Agreement is being implemented. To this end it shall provide the Commission of the European Communities with the following information :
l) Every three months until the quantities received as aid have been fully used :
a) number and description of recipients, the quantities distributed, and where and how they were distributed.
b) quantities eold, how they have been sold, selling prices) normal
.. f-,■■ selling costs on the recipient country's market;
2) On 15 January every year until the special account has been fully uséd :
a) State of this account (incomings and outgoings) on 31 December of the preceding year? ,
b) Progress achieved in the project or projects, with an indication of the total amount of financing undertaken at that stage.
I shall be obliged if you will inform me whether your Government can agree to th< above .
I have the honour to inform you that the Government of the Republic of Chad agrees to the amendments proposed in your letter.
Please accept. Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.
For the Government
of the Republic of Chad
