(Communication/de Sir Christopher SOAMES)
7P-r (Communication,de Sir Chrtstopher SOAMES)
1. At its session on 24 June 1975, the Council of the European Communities asked the Commissiontrrsubmit its opinion on the Greek application for membership of the EEC, the ECSC and the Euratom, according to Articles 237, 98 and 205 of the respective Treaties.
2. In order to formulate its opinion on the Greek applications, the Commission hasundertaken a first examination of the economic and technical questions which
the entry of Greece into the Community might raise. This examination has revealed that in a number of areas it is not possible before more information has become
availabletoarriveat aclearpictusa^^WnTthetechnicalandeconomicproblems which might arise, either with regaigj*to the factual situation or with regard
to the way in which solutions to spJ^pS^fccroblems might be sought in negotiations For this reason, the Commission mip£ wishwo present supplementary .information and evaluations at a later stage. JI
In addition to the general fcid spea^ic economic questions relating to the enlargement of the Community, ^H^pinion on the Greek application for
membership must take account of certain wider issues of a political and economic nature including the problems related to the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean as well as to the prospect of further enlargements of the Community.
3. The general questions and wider issues raised by the Greek application are examinedbelowinPartI, whilethepreliminaryfindingsregardingspecific economic and technical questions are contained in Part II. ' " ' - -
4. It is the first time that the European Community has been presented with an application for full membership from a country with which it already has close contractual links. This relationship is defined in the Association which was created between the EEC and Greece in 1962 , covering not just trade policy but a whole series of steps that were to be undertaken to ensure Greece 's progressive integration into the entire fabric of Community life. In particular, the
Athens agreement was explicitly aimed at paving the way for eventual full membersh
Fourteen years later, in the aftermath,of fundamental changes in its political and economic, situation, Greece has decided that, it is now in a position to move on to this final stage in its relations with the Community.
r Given the avowed .aims of the Community in establishing the Association, and Greece's return to a democratic form of government, there can be no doubt, in the view of the Commission, that the Community must now give a clear positive
answer to the Greek request.
5. The Greek application for membership in the timescale currently envisaged, that is without first waiting for the full implementation of the present Association, necessarily raises a complex of issues which need to be identified, for they entail important consequences for both Greece and the Community, and, taking a positive verdict on the principle of membership as the starting point, this paper proposes certain guideline^jjM^P^flS^hing these problems.
6. One of the most important political isMes raised by the prospect of Greek
membership stems from the serious disagreements between Greece and Turkey, an Associate country whose agreement with the CBnmunity also has full membership as its stated final objective. d M
7. The disputes between these two Associates, among them those concerning the Aegean Sea and the continental shelf, have deep-rooted historical origins and
involve a number of issues of political , strategic and economic importance both forthecountriesdirectlyinvolvedthemselvesandfortherestofEurope. Most acute at the moment is the tension which originates in their relations with Cyprus , and in recent developments in that country, which is also an Associate of the Community. The Member States of the Community, as well as the Community itself, have constantly expressed their grave concern at the threat which these tensions constitute to lasting peace and stability in the region as well as to the independence and territorial integrity of Cyprus.
8. The European Community is not and should not become a party to the disputes
between Greece and Turkey. But if this is to be avoided a timely settlement to Santos v'i11 need to be fonnd. The Comi on is aware of the
already made by Greece and Turkey with a view to bringing an end to the difference: between them, and also of the breadth and depth of the numerous complicated, sensitive and, for each of the parties, important or even vital issues which are involved. But if the original Members of the Community have been able to settle
in a peaceful manner the differences that had divided them in the past , the commission considers that it should be possible for Greece and Turkey also to settle their disputes in a similar way, within a period corresponding to that which, for the six founding Member States, separated an open and deadly conflict from the first steps on the road towards European integration.
The Commission is consequently of the opinion that the European Community should urge upon Greece and Turkey the need for them to reach just and lasting solutions to the differences which separate them. The Community should consider what part it could play, in parallel with the preparatory work for Greek accession, to facilitate this process. It is evident that the success of these initiatives does not depend on the Community alone, and it would therefore be inappropriate for the decision on Greek membership to be dependent on it.
9. Until now the balance in the Commun^^^^elations with Greece and Turkey has found its expression in|fc!!53a,pidentical status as Associates, both of them with the possibility of fuik membership as the final objective, albeit with different timetables.
Unavoidably the prospect of Greek memWrship of the Community introduces a new element in this balance. m
In the view of the Commissi^fcg^Kific steps will need to be taken to give substance to the Council 's declaration of 24 June 1975 , to the effect that the examination of the Greek application for membership will not affect relations between the Community and Turkey and that the rights guaranteed by the Association Agreement with Turkey would not be affected thereby.
10. To this end the Commission is of the opinion that, once a positive decision has been taken on the Greek application the Community should, at an appropriate moment , declare its readiness to consider with Turkey how best to ensure progress under its Association with the EEC. This could involve laying down a precise timetable in certain areas which could not be challenged unless the Council of Association were so to decide.
 . Economic Implications of Greek Accession
11. Where the Community is concerned, the overall impact in macro-economic terms of Greek membership of the Community will be limited given the relative magnitudes involved; and the main economic implication of Greek membership for the Community is likely to be financial and budgetary (see Part II below).
12. The Greek economy at its present stage of development contains a number cf structural features which limits its ability to combine homogeneously with the economies of the present Member States. In particular, the relative size of the agricultural population, the structure of Greece's agricultural industry, and its relatively weak industrial base call for structural changes for which the Community will have to bear a considerable share of the cost. Substantial transfe: of resources will need to take place , and the order of magnitude will be
related to the time foreseen for these adjustj^jl^^^
13. Astothebudgetaryimplicationlfofeventualenlargement,thepresentopinion
cannot be specific ifforno reason oiMe^foAhan that too much uncertainty surrounds the timing and breakdown of individiAr zom^fcents of revenue and expenditure.
Many of the necessary projections can only uMfully be made when detailed negotiations have shed more light on the kin«of arrangements that may be concludec
But to indicate the orders of magmTude which may be involved, the Commission has made some purely illustrative calculations of revenue and expenditure. These are based on the Community Budget for 1976, and the full application (at current prices and exchange rates) of the policies underlying that Budget to Greece (as expenditure additional to the 1976 Budget).
The estimated overall result would be an increase in expenditure of the order of 450 million U.A. , or about 6% of the 1976 EEC-9 budget. The estimated overall increase in revenue (own resources and contributions) would be of the order of 150 million U.A. , leaving a net additional annual cost of some 300 million U.A.
These illustrative figures are based on a sinple application of the
Community's current policies, and do not therefore fully take into account the
actual financing requirements of the Greek ecoao.ny a.iiudsd to above. Nor do thc/ .take into account the impact of any transitional measures on either the revenue
or the expenditure aspects .of the budget.
14. Where Greece is concerned it might at first sight seem that the Association Agreement, which has already brought the contracting parties a long way towards customs union, has drastically reduced the eventual economic impact of full membership. But there are certain additional aspects to which the Commission think
it necessary to draw attention.
First, in the important area of agricultural harmonisation, actual progress within the Association has regrettably been limited, largely because of the
freezing of the Agreement from 1967-74. Although in 1975 the work of agricultural harmonisation has been taken up again, the fact is that Greece's position is still far from being that of a near Member State. Complex political and social considerations will mean that integration of Greek agriculture with that of the Community, whether within the framework of Association or of membership, will take time: and the faster the process, the greater the cost.
Secondly, in recent times the Comn^aj^P^rasgranted various forms of
preferential access to its market tajt^wide range countries, be it in Europe, in theMediterranean,orelsewhere. iRseareobligationswhichdonotaffect
Greece as an Associate, but which shpj^ulci^^ive to assume as a member.
15. So long as Greece is not a member of the lommunity the kind of difficulties
that might arise from the necessary structurjy changes mentioned in paragraphs 12and14abovecouldbedealtwrthmoree^Kly. ThusGreeceiscurrentlytoa greatextentfreetoconductits^^iaif^icytowardsthirdcountries. Evenwith regard to trade with Member States , special mechanisms could be allowed if
grave difficulties were to arise.
In the case of full membership, however, the same degree of flexibility could not be allowed without disrupting the common market. Everything possible should of course be done to avoid such a risk, especially in view of the likelihood of further applications for membership from countries in a similar economic position to that of Greece, for whom the arrangements concluded within the framework of Greek accession would create a precedent.
 Development of the Community .
that implied by any enlargement of the Community, namely its effect on the working methods and the future development of the Community.
The prospect of further enlargement at a time when the full consequences of theprecedingonehavenotyetbeenabsorbedmustgiverisetoconcern. This concern is even greater in that the Community, by demonstrating now its willingnes to admit a European country which is still undergoing the strain of rapid industrialisation, creates a precedent for further enlargements. The Commission considers therefore that any further enlargement must be accompanied by a substantial improvement in the efficiency of the Community's decision-making processes and a strengthening of its common institutions.
17. Furthermore, in so far as its future development is concerned, the
Community is preparing to take some imp£jg±a^|^^^eps on the road towards
European Union comprising a whole rang^St political (eg direct elections to the
EuropeanParliament)andeconomic(egIjPongmicandMonetaryUnion)questions. On
someofthesematters,decisionsofpiyfcipjmhavealreadybeentaken. Thison­ going integration process must not be delayed*>y further enlargement. ~Indeed
furtherenlargementcallsforahaccelerationjofthisprocess. Thereforethe
Commission believes it essential for the Cajminity to make significant progress in its own internal development in tnW^^od leading up to enlargement.
18. In preparing the present opinion the Commission has been deeply conscious
of the obligation that lies on the Community to find a fitting and appropriate response to the Greek request for membership. This request, coming a few months only after the restoration of democracy in Greece and enjoying the support of almost every shade of Greek political opinion, represents a remarkable affirmation by the Greek people and their leaders of the overriding importance they attach to<'theircountrybeingcommittedtothecarseofEuropean - ---
integration. It is clear that the consolidation of Greece's democracy which is
a fundamental concern not only of the Greek people but also of the Community and its Member States, is intimately related to the evolution of Greece's relationship wic.h the Coiuaiin.ty. it is in the light of these considerations tiiat the Coiianission reccsisiXTicls that n clear affirmative reply be given to ti e Greek request .
19. The present opinion has examined a number of difficult political and economic issues winch are raised by such a decision.
/In the
 In the view of the Commission these should not be regarded as obstacles in the path of Greek accession, but should serve rather as a stimulus to the search for solutions and to the Community's own internal development and reinforcement. They do, however, give rise to certain considerations on timing.
The Community's experience has already shown the need for a transitional peria of some years even for countries with a highly developed industrial base and an agricultural structure comparable to the other Member States. In the case of Greece, where structural changes of a considerable magnitude are needed, it would seem desirable to envisage a period of time before the obligations of membership, even subject to transitional arrangements, are undertaken. During this period
it would be necessary to do much more than simply press ahead with the final stages of the development of the Association. In the Commission's view what is needed
is on the one hand a substantial economic programme which would enable Greece
to accelerate the necessary structural reforms,and on the other,
measures to bring Greece into a closer working rel^^dfship with the Community's institutions. Forexampleitwouldseem^rt^^Kate,inadditiontothenew financial protocol proposed under the AsMeiation, to envisage the use of
certain of the Community's own existingly^eTrefcal instruments in Greece during thisperiod; thustheCommunitycouldJllocate^nitsbudgetspecialadditional funds for Greece as part of the Social, Regional#and Agricultural Structure Funds. Theworkofcommittingthisexpenditua^couldbesoorganisedthat Greecewouldherselfparticipateacti^^jjgl^theprocess; inthesefields,
as well as possibly in others , Greece would thus be brought more and more into the working of the Community mechanisms. Moreover, it would seem also appropriate that the Member States of the Community should work out ways of bringing Greece into closer contact with the procedures of political cooperation on matters of foreign policy.
At the same time, and in parallel with the implementation of these measures , negotiations could begin with Greece on those tissues which experience
in previous membership negotiations has shown to require a very considerable amount of time and effort.
20. In the event of the Member States sharing the Commission's general conclusions about the Community's response to the Greek request for membership, the icuuViissiotiwouluintendtoputforwarddetailedproposalsforthespecial lrcnvsures to be taken v/ith Greece during the period leacin0 up :o h_n' accession.
Tariff reduction/alignment schedules under the Athens agreement)
GBP and per capita GDP, 1973» selected countries. Indices of industrial production (major industries),
Geographical composition of Greek imports, 1974 (/-)•
Agricultural production, availability, and self- sufficiency, by main product headings, 1965 - 1967 and 1971 - 1974» EEC and Greece.
Greek exports to the EEC of annex II (Treaty of Rome) products.
Compo^fiSmof tne labour force, 1961 and 1971.
Composition of GDPby sectors, 1969 - 1974*
Area, population, density (1961/1971) ?nd per capita GDP (1972) by; region.
Cumulative regional distribution of (a) population and (b) income /Lorenz curves), selected countries.
hvisible Earnings by major souroe, 1961/1974*
Balance of Payments, 1969 - 1974*
TABLE 10// Overall energy balance sheet by product, 1961, 1970, / and1973.
Greek imports from the EC of Annex II products.
EEC trade with world, world extra-EEC, Mediterranean and Greec^^1974) /
Greece - EE®"balafee^T trade, 1958 - 1974» Greek trade (world and EEC) "by tariff phapter
V, (a) Tariff reduction by Greece with resnect to Community exports of Annex I
Ctumilative $ reduction of "basiCchity
with less than . 15 # difference after first reduction)
Alignment by Greece to the C(M forflfapoms from thi^dfeouriTrie3 of products ' (b) Alignment fey Greece to the
listed in Annex I of the Ai listedinAnnexIoftheA^S^Ly&Ma^rit (Article
<•;v- Cuimatlj^reduction of difference "jAiébfélm Greek and CCT rate
maclk and other rlw.tr.
Vn»*, A« from 1975. Oifl innnthly Index ; of lii(lusfrl.l» pmilnfMon liV thoNsse. lias «!i70 aslls haw year and «l<«s not Iim IihIo llriinit fcr the <itt<'^oiirs »l wikhI and cork, and- proiliicls nl i.i'trn-
minerais. of metals
Central !. Food- Bcveragfti Tobacco . • Textiles' other wear­
ing apparel. muric-up textile cooili
and cork Lgf
[nduB^^(ï^r> fi Services árotherfl
fb) Inoludes • Kanufaotnrin^l Mining and Quarrying| Eleotrioity, Oaa and
Source I Banl^ of Greece, Monthly Statistical Bnlletln* '
Crète Thessalie
Statistical Yearbook c
Statistical Yearbook or ij^Jtenk of Greece
Other
Soureei ' Bank of Greece . "Wont
Lstlcal 8ulletin. Karch l963t April 1975*
mi M Rate of ' ' -
y-'i Other private capital1.?*' Capital bclonRins to banki and\,'
Clinncc in OfticinlJmerTfli
OfH«JAt. nt^nvi<(enfrof peri'.*!)* : Forhon>m'PPUtnpr Cmurf .; •
other credit institutions1 ;%
Foreign.suppliers' cie<lit > Aid-lUparations-RestitutiontJfv^I
Source t Bank of Greecef Report for the year 1975.
Other
(') Amounts of drachmas withJrawn out of forcipn exchange dcposit*by Creek workers and seamen, as well as
Vjf'out of deposits under the Housing Loan IX'posif Scheme, are entered as a foreign exchange inllo* in "Invisible JF receipts" and "Other private capital" and as an outflow in "Capita! belonging to banks and other credit instt-
O Transfer from Bank of Grccos reserve of gold sovereigns. (•) Including Greece's gold tranche .with the IMF.:;.
!• Priraory ïhergy Production Enersy Sources
Electtical Energy -
4. Chances in stocks •
9. Secondary enerey PWdu
,,19.216 , EJ!KER3 included 17.706 BDNKEStS excluded -,
AIT ENTIER (1)V1 f frodJt. 1
Tariff reduction/alignment schedules under the Athens agreement)
GDP and per capita GDP, 1973# selected countries.
Indices of industrial production (major industries), 1959 n 100.
Indices of real GDP, selected countries , 1964 - 1973 .
Composition of the labour force , 1961 and 1971 .
Composition of GDP 1)7 sectors, 1969 – 1974«
Area, population, density (1961/1971) end per capita GDP (1972) by region.
Cumulative regional distribution of (a) population and (b) income (Lorenz curves), selected countries.
Invisible Earnings by major source, I96I/ 1974. Balance of Payments, 1969 - 1974-
Overall energy balance sheet by product , and 1973.
Greek exports to the EEC of annex II (Treaty of Rome) products .
composition of Greek imports ,
1971 - 1974, EEC and Greece.
production, availability , and
by main product headings , 1965 - 1967 and
 Greek imports from the EC of Annex II products.
EEC trade with world, world extra-EEC, Mediterranean, and Greece (1974)
Greece - EEC balance of trade, 1958 - 1974- Greek trade (world and EEC) "by tariff chapter.
(a) Tariff reduction by Greece with'reanect to Community exports of Annex I
Cumulative % reduction of basiCduty
(b) Alignment by Greece to the CCT for imports from third countries of products
Cumulative reduction of difference
with less than.15 $ difference after first reduction)
: Textiles' other wear­ Wood ; tj- ing anparcl,
• Pnntinj» liCntlier Jttlhher Chcmicats Productif Non- > ' Basic ' . Metallnrg. amiaratu.i $i Appar* Vehicles Miscfilla»
flrtltie* and plaf- tic*
of noir.' metallic | forms';; nroducU excl. elrrtr. tUfl ond
minerals of rhctala K- 7,6;-5 'Ù 2,7; ;
mach. and ollier rjftf.tr.
Fnnrrn » National Statistical Service ittf Greece.
(A) Inoludes I Agriculture^ Animal Breeding! Porestryf PiBhing# :
(b) Inoludes t Kanufaoturlngt Mining and Qwuryingf Electricity. Oas and .
Source i Bank of Oreeos. Monthly Statistical Bulletin# : * ' ;;h:v \
Thes salie
Sources: Statistical Yearbook of the Bank of Greece Centre de Programmation et d'Etudes économiques
Other
'.·· in million U.S.f
Sourcei'■* Bank of Greece, Monthly Statistical Bulletina March 1963t April 1975.
i. as well as out of deposits under the Housing Loan Doposi.t Scheme, are entered as a foreign exchange inllow in " Invisible receipts" und "Other private capital" and as an outflow in "Capital belonging to banks and other credit insti-
' Other
*i''V Tableau 17 - Balanoe of pavmenta (million US
Private venture capitili - .' Vi Other pr^ate capital1.;r
Capital belonging ' to banks aitil .;,* other credit institution*1
Government loans "".£,-0' Public entity and public cntpr-
• V:v: , Otmual Rrst nvitf"(end of period)* ' < (317.0) " ! (310.1)
' • (') Amounts of drachmas withdrawn out of forcipn exchange deposi^y Creek workeni'aml seamen, as well as
. • ,• , '■.*/ ;,.-<• i;: \+?: i .„•, - O Transfer from Bank of Crccoe reserve of gold sovereigns. . •: r
(') Including Greece's gold tranche.with the IMF.",., ^ ^
Sourco t Bank of Greece, RepoH for the year 1975* ;^c 1 ^
Energy products HardCoal •
1· Prinary Eherfjy Production 7
* __& '10. Consumption of the "energyTM oeotor
and Mlosae3N
Overall Ehérgy Balance Slieeit ly. Product (in thousend T.EeC.) ']·
Jf txx-cZ.
sans agrumes) Lgrumee ·
et Habil leaent
Produits manufacturés
Sources : Statistical Yearbook of the Bank of Greece
67.2 -176.2 . 125.4 Aides-Réparations-Restitutions 3.0 1.8 1-2 0.7 0.5 . 1.0
17 O8.O5 Fruits à coques 18 11.07 Malt
Ail gonds and services
Netherlands -- Pays-Bas
Irelond – Irlande
Finland – Finlande
III II I I I lllll I I II I I i : 1 Switzerland – Suisse
Griechenland EUR–9 Griechenland EUR-9 ι
üTnG meer- land raum
land/Weltland/Ex– land/llit– tra-EWGfo telmeer- raun (1)
Irland Mri. i î ,
SULLA 1XJMANDA DI AIE SI QMS IELLA GRECIA
: | 's Afo ; " 5S1-.
- landbouwheffingon (2)
- haver. + andero granen '
Ierland /y
Zwitserland
29 January 1976
Table of Contents
Specific aspects of the Greek application for membership
A. TheGreekeconomy 1
B. The present state of the Association 3
C. The Customs Union 3
D. TheInternalMarket 5
E. TheCommonAgriculturalPolicy 5
P. TheRulesonCompetition 12
Km Free Movement of Capital 15
0. BudgetaryconsequencesofGreekmembership 18 P. Institutions 20
Q. Otherissues 20
Statistical Annexes.
1 . At its session on 24 June 1975 > "the Council of the European Communities asked the Commission to submit its opinion on the Greek application for member­ ship of the EEC, the ECSC and the Euratom, according to Articles 237» 9^ and 205 of the respective Treaties.
2. In order to formulate its opinion on the Greek applications, the Commission has undertaken a first examination of the economic and technical
questions which the entry of Creece into the Community might raise . This examination has revealed that in a number of areas it is not possible before more information has become available to arrive at a clear picture of all the technical and economic problems which might arise , either with regard to the factual situation or with regard to the way in which solutions to specific problems might be sought in negotiations. For this reason, the Commission might wish to present supplementary information and evaluations at a later stage .
In addition to the general and specific economic questions relating to the enlargement of the Community, an opinion on the Greek application for member­ ship must take account of certain wider issues of a political and economic nature including the problems related to the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean as well as to the prospect of further enlargements of the Community.
3. The general questions and wider issues raised by the Greek application are examined below in Part I , while the preliminary findings regarding specific economic and technical questions are contained in Part II.
4. It is the first time that the European Community has been presented with an application for full membership from a country with which it already has close contractual links . This relationship is defined in the Association which was created between the EEC and Greeoein 19^2 , covering not just trade policy but a whole series of steps that were to be undertaken to ensure Greece 's progressive integration into the entire fabric of Community life . In particular , the Athens agreement was explicitly aimed at paving the way for eventual full membership .
Fourteen years later , in the aftermath of fundamental changes in its political and economic situation, Greece has decided that it is now in a position to move on to this final stage in its relations with the Community.
Given the avowed aims of the Community in establishing the Association, and Greece 's return to a democratic form of government , there can "be no doubt , in the view of the Commission that the Community must now give a clear positive answer to the Greek request.
5. The Greek application for membership in the timescale currently envisaged, that is without first waiting for the full implementation of the present Association , necessarily raises a complex of issues which need to be identified for they entail important consequences for both Greece and the Community, and, taking a positive verdict on the principle of membership as the starting point , this paper proposes certain guidelines for approaching these problems#
6. The prospect of Greek membership raises the problem of the disagreements between Greece and Turkey, an Associate country whose agreement with the Community also has full membership as its stated final objective*
The European Community is not and should not become a party to the disputes between Greece and Turkey.
The Commission is consequently of the opinion that the European Community should urge upon Greece and Turkey the need for them to reach just and lasting solutions to the differences which separate them. The Community should consider what part it could play, in parallel with the preparatory work for Greek accession, to facilitate this process. It is evident that the Buccess of these initiatives does not depend on the Community alone , and it would therefore be inappropriate for the decision on Greek membership to be dependent on it .
7. Until now the balance in the Community's relations with Greece and Turkey has found its expression in their identical status as Associates , both
of them with the possibility of full membership as the final objective , albeit with different timetables.
Unavoidably the prospect of Greek membership of the Community introduces a new element in this balance .
In -the view of th® Commission speoifio steps will need to fee taken to give substance to the Council 's declaration of 24 June 1975 » "to "the effect that the examination of the Greek application for membership will not affect relations "between the Community and Turkey and that the rights guaranteed toy the Association Agreement with Turkey would not he affected thereby. The Commission will in due course submit separately its proposals on how this should be done .
Economic Implication? of Crook Accession
8. Where the Community is concerned, the overall impact in macro-economic terms of Greek membership of the Community will be limited given the relative magnitudes involved; and the main economic implication of Greek membership for the Community is likely to be financial and budgetary (see Part II below).
9. The Greek economy at its present stage of development contains a number of structural features which limits its ability to combine homogeneously with the economies of the present Member States . In particular , the relative size
of the agricultural population, the structure of Greece's agricultural industry, and its relatively weak industrial base call for structural changes for which the Community will have to bear a share of the cost. Transfers of resources "
will need to take place, and the order of magnitude will be related to the time foreseen for these adjustments.
10. As to the budgetary implications of eventual enlargement, the present opinion cannot be specific if for no reason other than that too much uncertainty surrounds the timing and breakdown of individual components of revenue and expenditure .Many of the necessary projections can only usefully be made when detailed negotiations have shed more light on the kind of arrangements that may
be concluded . And no figures given now can take into account the possible evolution of the Community 's own policies and the dynamic effects of Greek membership on these policies.
But to indicate the orders of magnitude which may be involved , the Commission has made some purely illustrative calculations of revenue and ex­ penditure. These are based on the Community budget for 1976, and the full application (at current prices and exchange rates) of the policies underlying the budget to Greece(as expenditure additional to the 1976 budget).
The estimated overall result would be an increase in expenditure of the order of 450 million U.A. , or about 6fo of the 1976 EEC-9 budget . The
estimated overall increase in revenue (own resources and contributions) would "be of the order of 150 million U.A. , leaving a net additional annual cost of some 300 million U.A.
These illustrative figures are based on a simple application of the Community 's current policies , and do not therefore fully take into account the actual financing requirements of the Greek economy alluded to above . Nor do they take into account the impact of any transitional measures on either the revenue or the expenditure aspects of the "budget .
11. Where Greece is concerned it might at first sight seem that the Association Agreement , which has already brought the contracting parties a long way towards customs union , has drastically reduced the eventual economic impact of full membership. But there axe certain additional aspects to which the Commission thinks it necessary to draw attention.
First , in the important area of agricultural harmonisation , actual progress within the Association has regrettably been limited, largely because of the freezing of the Agreement from 1967-74. Although in 1975 "the work of agricultural harmonisation ha3 been taken up again , the fact is that Greece 's position is still far from being that of a near Member State. Complex political and social considerations will mean that integration of Greek agriculture with that of the Community, whether within the framework of Association or of membership , will take time : and the faster the process , the greater the cost .
Secondly, in recent times the Community has granted various forms of preferential access to its market to a wide range of countries , be it in Europe , in the Mediterranean , or elsewhere . These are obligations which do not affect Greece as an Associate , but which she would have to assume as a member .
12. So long as Greece is not a member of the Community the kind of diffuculties that might arise from the necessary structural changes mentioned in paragraphs
9 and 11 above could be dealt with more easily . Thus Greece is currently to a
great extent free to conduct its trade policy towards third countries . Even with regard to trade with Member States , special mechanisms could be allowed if
grave difficulties were to arise .
In the case of full membership, however, the same degree of flexibility could not be allowed without disrupting the common market . Everything possible should of course be done to avoid such a risk, especially in view of the
likelihood of further applications for membership from countries in a similar economic position to that of Greece , for whom the arrangements concluded, within the framework of Greek accession would create a precedent .
Development of the Community
13. A quite different issue raised "by the prospect of Greek membership is that implied "by any enlargement of the Community, namely its effect on the working methods and the future development of the Community.
The prospect of further enlargement at a time when the full consequences of the preceding one have not yet been absorbed must give rise to concern. The Commission considers therefore that any further enlargement must be accompanied by a substantial improvement in the efficiency of the Community's decision- making processes and strengthening of its common institutions .
14 . Furthermore , in so far as its future development is concerned , the Community is preparing to take some important new steps on the road, towards European Union comprising a whole range of political (eg direct elections to
the European Parliament) and economic (eg Economic and Monetary Union) questions. On some of these matters, decisions of principle have already been taken. This on-going integration process must not be delayed by further enlargement. Indeed further enlargement calls for an acceleration of this process. Therefore the Commission believes it essential for the Community to make significant progress in its own internal development in the period leading up to enlargement.
15* In preparing the present opinion tne Commission has been deeply conscious of the obligation that lies on the Community to find a fitting and appropriate response to the Greek request for membership. This request, coming a few months only after the restoration of democracy in Greece and enjoying the support of almost every shade of Greek political opinion, represents a remarkable affirmation
by the Greek people and their leaders of the overriding importance they attach
to their country being committed to the cause of European integration. It is clear that the consolidation of Greece 's democracy which is a fundamental concern not only of the Greek people but also of the Community and its Member States ,
 is intimately related to the evolution of Greece 's relationship with the Community. It is in the light of these considerations that the Commission recommends that a clear affirmative reply be given to the Creek request and that negociations for Greek accession be opened.
16. The present opinion has examined a number of difficult political and economic issues which are raised by such a decision. In the view of the Commission these should not be regarded as obstacles in the path of Greek accession, but should serve rather as a stimulus to the search for solutions and to the Community 's own internal development and reinforcement . They do , however , give rise to certain considerations on timing .
The Community's experience has already shown the need for a transitional period of some years even for countries with a highly developed industrial base and an agricultural structure comparable to the other Member States . In the
case of Greece , where structural changes of a considerable magnitude are needed , it would seem desirable to envisage a period of time before the obligations of membership , even subject to transitional arrangements , are undertaken . During this period , which will in any case need to be limited , it would be necessary
to do much more than simply press ahead with the final stages of the
development of the Association. In the Commission1s view what is needed is on
the one hand a substantial economic programmewhich would enable Greece to accelerate the necessary structural reforms , and on the other , measures to
bring Greece into a closer working relationship with the Community's institutions For example it would seem appropriate, in addition to the new financial protocol proposed under the Association, to envisage the use of certain of the Community's own existing financial instruments in Greece during this period} thus the Community could allocate in its budget special funds for Greece as an additional part of the Social , Regional and Agricultural Structure Funds . The work of committing this expenditure could be so organised that Greece would herself participate actively in the process . In these fields , as well as possibly on others , Greece would thus be brought more and more into the working of the Community mechanisms . Moreover , it would seem also appropriate that the Member States of the Community should work out ways of bringing Greece into closer contact with the procedures of political cooperation on matters of foreign policy
At the same time, and in parallel with the implementation of these measures , negotiations towards accession should begin with Greece , priority being given to those issues which experience in previous membership negotiations has shown to require a very considerable amount of time and effort .
17 . In the event of the Council sharing the Commission s general conclusions about the Community 's response to the Greek request for membership , the Commission would intend to put forward detailed proposals for the special measures to he taken with Greece during the period up to her accession.
Some of the main characteristics of the Greek economy and its growth since the late 1950' s serve as a "background to the specific problems that might arise
in the context of the country's accession to the Community. (The details of
the national income compared with certain other countries in Europe are contained in table l).
The years 1958 to 1973 witnessed a substantial improvement in the country's economic situation, both in absolute terms and as compared to the present Member States of the Community, This improvement was brought about through an extremely high rate of sustained growth in C.DP, based mainly on the rapid development of key industrial sectors, (l) whose capital requirements were to a great extent met by foreign private investment.
The road towards industrialisation taken by Greece so far has, however, raised a number of structural problems for its economy, some of which are particularly noteworthy here. Firstly, agriculture has lagged behind the boom in industrial production. Small, often unproductive holdings, difficult soil conditions, problems in applying modern technology and substantial hidden unemployment underlie this sector's relatively low share of the national product notwith­
standing the high proportion of the country's active population employed in agriculture.(2)
Secondly, industrial growth has tended to concentrate geopgrahically, the bulk
of investments centering on the Athens-Piraeus conurbation to the detriment
of most of the islands and the peripheralmainland areas, thus aggravating the
regional problems faced by Greece. (3) The country's regional disparities,
though in individual respects comparable to those of Italy and Ireland, may
prove as a whole to be even harder to correct, particularly as a result of
geographical handicaps. Moreover, Greece's overall rate of industrial growth
conceals very large disparities between different industries! the metal,
petrochemical and textile sectors have registered particularly dynamic perfomaneces. ■■- •/•
(1) Tables 1 and 2.
(2) Tables 4T 5 ar'd- note 1. (3) Tables 6 and 7»
 Thirdly, although Greek economic development has been accompanied by a sustained deficit on visible trade, partly explained by dependence on imported capital
goods, until recently, this deficit was largely compensated "by an equally sustained surplus on invisible trade, made up mostly of earnings from shipping and tourism and emigrant workers' remittances# (l).
But now, owing partly to certain short–term changes in invisible receipts, "but
most particularly to the unfavourable shift in terms of trade brougth about since the 1973/4 surge in oil prices, a substantial current account deficit has emerged.(2) This deficit has not so far seriously affected the country's exchange reserves,
which fell in 1974 for the first time since 1968» moreover, the burden of debt servicing is still within normal limits (3).
4 The Creek economy, particularly since 1973» has also undergone a period of high
rate of inflation, which, althoxigh falling now, has not yet been brought baok to a level nearer to the OECD average: should this not be achieved, the country's external disequilibrium would be further aggravated, with all the problems this entails.(4)
An alleviation of the country's balance-of–payments difficulties may be on its way in the shape of new sourced of energy. Large lignite and peat reserves, and hydroelectric power, together with recent oil discoveries, could provide the basis for new processing industries as well as earning or saving valuable foreign exchange. As yet, however, it is not possible to evaluate this energy potential with any degree of accuracy.(5)
Developments in the balance of payments are, however, expected to constitute a major constraint on economic growth in the coming 5-year period, and a significant inflow of long term private capital seems required if a critical increase of other development of the Greek economy moreover depends on the continuation of industrialisation through the creation of competitive industries; a successful policy with regard to the modernisation of agriculture ; the elimination of hidden unemployment in that sector as well as improvement of living standards for those who remain employed in agriculture; the attracting of foreign capital and the mobilisation of domestic savings for investment , in particular through the development of a capital market which seems too narrow at present; and the carrying out of f–iscal reforms.
(1) Tables 8 and 15
(3) About 11% of export revenue in 1974«
The economic implications of Greece 's application for membership must
also be measured against the current state of economic relations between
it and the European Community. These relations are defined by the provisions of the 1962 Association Agreement , which was the first and most wide-ranging contractual arrangement of its kind undertaken by the Community.
The Association Agreement 's main principles and provisions were modelled closely on those of the Treaty of Rome. They therefore cover not only a
full customs union, which in agriculture is to be accompanied by harmonisation of agricultural policies, but also several other elements of the Common Market such as rules of competition including those applying to state aids, free
movement of persons and services, and coordination of economic policies.
However, many of the provisions of the agreement, which was intended to be fully implemented by 1984» have hardly begun to be applied at all, particularly as a result of the 1967~74 freezing of all progress on many provisions of the agreement. In several of these areas it was in any case not mandatory that
the agreement be applied in exactly the same way as similar provisions of
the Treaty of Rome, It follows from this that in a number of areas membership will create a completely new situation for Greece. This is for instance the case as regards the ECSC and external relations.
The development of the Association has been considerably hampered by the imbalance created between the automatic provisions relating to the Customs Union and the other provisions as a result of the 1967-74 freeze: more remains to be done in a much shorter time than was originally foreseen and the full implementation of the provisions of the Association Agreement could present substantial difficulties.
Since 1 November 1974» practically all Greek exports to the Community and about two-thirds of Community exports to Greece enter free of duty under the provisions of the Association Agreement.(l)
(l) This does not include levies and compensatory taxes for certain agricultural sectors.
 The remaining third of Community exports to Greece is governed by a timetable leading to customs union by 1984 in progressive stages(l)* as of 1 November 1975 Greece may apply to Community exports of these products only 56$ of its 1962 duties. Greece is obliged to phase out progressively, by 1984, its remaining quantitative restrictions on imports from the Community, and neither party may invoke the general safeguard clause, void since 1970.
Under the Agreement and subsequent decisions of the contracting parties, Greece is empowered, until 1980, to reintroduce tariff duties within well- defined limits, in defence of its infant industries. Such duties must in any case be removed by 1984. Very limited use has so far been made of this facility which seems incompatible with full membership, maybe because disarmement with respect to most of the really sensitive sectors has only
recently reached a significant depth.
In this context should also be mentioned the Greek import deposit soheme which applies fully to imports from third countries and parially to imports
from the EEC. This scheme is intended to be phased out by 1984(2).
Moreover, Greece appears to apply to its industries an extensive system of aids. Insofar as some of these should prove incompatible with the common market, (see F below), detailed studies would be required to estimate the impact on the sectors concerned of the removal of this element of protection.
With regard to third countries, Greece has adopted the basic duties of the CCT for those products which now enter from the Community free of duty. For the remaining products, alignment to the CCT as a general rule has reached 50$ of the difference between CCT and Greek rates. For certain products
alignment to the CCT is suspended until 1984. Adoption by Greece of the CCT has not so far, however, implied any adoption of the preferential agreements concluded between the Community and third countries, nor of the autonomous reductions within the Community's Generalised System of Preferences. In the event of membership Greece would have to adopt these preferential reductions*
a See schedule in statistical annex.
Under Protocol 11 of the Athens Agreement, although Greece has
introduced additional measures on a temporary basis in the past, which have now been removed.
This general heading covers the whole spectrum of complex technical issues, other than tariff matters, which affect freedora of movement for goods, services, and companies under the provisions of the Treaty of
Rome and secondary legislation. These range, amongst others, from quantitative restrictions to technical and safety standards, health regulations, procedures relating to public tenders, the protection of industrial property rights, harmonisation\>f company laws, and banking and insurance legislation.
In certain cases, for instance the elimination of quantitative restrictions and measures of equivalent effect, the difference between association and membership is not significant.
Many other elements of the Common Market, however, are either not covered by the Association Agreement or are covered by provisions of the Association which have not yet been implemented, and in these areas the implications of membership require further study. Even where significant economic consequences are unlikely to follow from the necessary changes
in legislation, experience has shown that a number of intricate problems may need to be solved. A considerable amount of joint technical preparatory work will therefore have to be carried out in order to identify points of difficulty and determine appropriate solutions.
The extension of the customs union to agricultural products is foreseen under the provisions of the Association Agreement , which provides that the functioning and development of the Association in the agricultural sector
shall be accompanied by the harmonisation of the agricultural policies of Greece and the Community. This harmonisation on which progress was stopped in 19^7 is to be accomplished by 1 November 19S4» entailing the adoption by Greece of the full provisions of the CAP, and in particular the EEC system of price guarantees, intervention levels, and export restitutions.
 2 Agricultural area (km )
Population engaged in agriculture as % of total working population
Contribution of agriculture toGDP{%) (1972)
Meanwhile, Greek agricultural exports to the EEC are governed "by a special series of arrangements "based either on the protocols annexed to the Athens
Agreement , or on decisions taken thereafter whithin the framework of the Association .
Currently, most of Greece's agricultural exports to the Community "benefit from complete exemption from customs duties where these still exist under the CAP. However, some mechanisms such as import levies are applied with respect to Greece, albeit using special criteria in the case of certain products#
As far as Membership is concerned the Commission considers that Greece must adopt, in the agricultural sector, the CAP as it stands. It is likely that this adoption will raise certain problems.
A rough comparison between the structure of Greek agriculture and that of the Community appears from the table below:
and Statistical Yearbook of Greece
(except where stated) ./•
 While the area under cultivation in a Community enlarged to includo Greece will increase by close to 10 per cent, and the farming population by a
little over 12 per cent, the number of farra units will increace by 19 per cent. The output per person engaged in agriculture in Greece is about 40
per cent to the gross national product at market prices in Greece, and
employs 36 per cent of the population, whilst in the Community it contributes about 5 Per cent to GNP and employs about 9 per cent of the working population*
The product coverage of Greek agriculture is not substantially different from that of the Community although there are differences as to the relative importance of a number of products# Milk, for instance, in 1972 accounted for 18 per cent of agricultural production in the Community, compared to only 3 per cent in Greece, whereas, for instance, the production of vegetable oils
accounts for slightly more than 1 per cent in the Community as compared to more than 10 per cent in Greece. It should be noted that some of the Greek products that have hitherto given rise to difficulties on the Community market are a relatively small part of current Greek domestic outputs(4) conversely, Greece is an importer of a number of products such as meat, dairy products and
This said, there is clearly a likelihood that the inclusion of Greece in the Community will lead to certain regional problems, seasonally aggravated, in
the Community itself, arising from the nature of Greek agricultural production, its response to the application of a CAP and the lack of intervention meohanisms for the products concerned.
Greek entry should not give rise either to major changes in the level of the Community's self-sufficiency for agricultural products(2) nor confront the different kinds of market organisation within the Community with a substantially different situation.
With the exception of certain products, such as oriental tobacco, some fresh and processed fruit and vegetables, and olive oil, such changes as will result are smaller than the normal annual variations in Community production. The Community is, however, not at present self-sufficient in any of the three product groups mentioned, and even after Greek entry it would seem that
(l) Tables 13 and 14*
(4) The proportion of agricultural output in Greece represented by wine is 2,3$
and fruit and vegetables 12,3$. Corresponding figures for the Community are 6,9% and 11,9$.
important quantities would still have to be imported, except in the case of & limited number of specific products.(l) It is probable, however, that the application of the CAP to Greece will lead to increased production in which case the level of self-sufficiency might undergo bigger changes than set out in table 12. In particular this could be the case for fruit and vegetables and wine.
Greek agricultural prices to the producer are in many cases (in particular for fruit and vegetables and wine) considerably lower than in the Community. For other products (like some cereals) there is no, or only a negligible, defference between producer prices in Greece and in the Community.
In certain sectors where some individual product prices are similar in Greece ^ and in the Community the price ratios between other products within the same
category can be substantially different from those in the Community (e.g.
cereals). Higher price levels and the guarantee system for certain products
in the Community will also, working in a substantially different structural
context, stimulate production in Greece on a selective basis. Given the considerable difference between the structure of agriculture in Greece and the EEC, abrupt modifications of the prices paid to Greek producers which are not accompanied by changes in the structure of Greek agriculture could create imbalance as regards incomes of different categories of agricultural producers.
For the Community, the main incidence of Greek membership in the agricultural sector is likely to be financial. The overall volume of Community interventions on both guarantee and guidance sections of the EA.GGF, on the national assumptions of immediate implementation of 1975 prices and market regulations to current production, can be estimated at an annual 280 million U.A. or about 5% of 1976 budgeted expenditure for the EAGGF.
(l) These limited changes in the Community's self-sufficiency ratio could in
the case of a few specific products, bring about modifieations to established trade patterns, notably with regard to thiM country. Mediterranean suppliers#
Ab regards the guidance section, it is clear that the current state of Greek agriculture presents a more serious structural problem than those prevailing
in any Member State (l). Farm holdings, which are generally small, are typically fragmented into unconnected plots, which in turn impedes the adoption of modern technology. These difficulties are aggravated by the absence of appropriate marketing facilities and in particular an insufficiently developed network of co-operatives. For these reasons, Community guidance expenditure is likely to have to increase by much more than the proportionate increase in the agricultural area (10^), and the increase in the total population engaged in agriculture (12$). It seems reasonable to assume that this proportion would increase by half to about 18/S, which gives an illustrative figure, based on the 1976 budget, of some 60 million U„A. This figure implies corresponding expenditure of up to
three times this amount by the Greek authorities, since guidance expenditure is subject to certain rules of matching.
As for the guarantee section, application of the 1975 market rules to Greek agricultural production would have the expenditure eoneequenoes illustrated in the following table, based on 1972-74 production and trade flows*
Illustration of FAGGF (Guarantee Section) Expenditure resulting from Greek Membership
Total EAGGF (Guarantee) of which1
Fruit and vegetables
Million U.A. – Current prices and exchange rates
(1) Within the context of the Association the Commission has recommended to
the Council that negotiations for a second financial protocol begin on
the basis of 1?0 million U.A. in grants and 250 million U.A. in loans
over 5 years, for agricultural infrastructure and to help convert agricultural production towards an increased harznonieation with the Community.
 The increase of 220 U.A. for 1976 in guarantee expenditure is composed principally of production aids. Additional export restitutions of some
20 MUC/annum will be incurred for exports from Greece to third countries, counterbalanced by a reduction of around 20 MUC/annum in export restitutions currently payable upon Community exports to Greece.
These figures do not take account of the dynamic effects resulting from the application of the CAP to Greek agricultural production structures nor of
the above average requirements of Greek agriculture for structural expenditure quite insufficient. The cost effect of these factors cannot be estimated in the absence of more detailed information both as to present patterns of production and as to future potential. Such matters need to be carefully examined in conjunction with the Greek authorities.
The Treaty of Rome and the Athens Agreement in principle impose similar obligations with respect to the rules which apply to undertakings, the use made of state aids, and state trading
monopolies and public enterprises. The provisions of the Athens Agreement have, however, not yet been implemented in the absence of the necessary decisions by the Council of Association.
Information on the Greek situation so far as the rules of competition and the system of aids are concerned is not yet
sufficient to determine whether application of the Community rules in this field is likely to give rise to major adjustment problems. However, a study in depth is needed in view of the need for a common framework for industrial policy.
As regards regional aids, Greece has been entitled under the Association agreement to maintain State aids for regional economic development by application to the country as a whole of the same derogation as is contained in Article 92 (3)(a) in the Treaty of Rome. In the event of accession, a solution ought rather to be sought along the lines of a protocol such as those relating to Southern Italy or Ireland where it is recognised that the particular economic situation of the region or country would be taken into account when applying the provisions of
the Treaty.
A preliminary examination of this complicated field, which is
not covered by the Association Agreement, has revealed a series of questions which will have to be studied further before it
can be established whether and to what extent the application to Greece of Community rules will create problems. The structure of the system of indirect taxation in Greece to conform to the
relevant provisions of Community legislation. For instance, Greece currently applies a turnover tax of the value-added type which in several respects differs from the system adopted by the Community.
Go far very little information is available on Greek excise taxes.
Greec's regional disparities are related to the problems of modernisation of agriculture and the requirements of industrialisation, and compounded by geographical and
Membership of the Community will necessarily imply extension by the latter to Greece of its recently formulated regional policy, and in particular, of development assistance within the framework of the Regional Fund.
Information about the precise economic situation of the Greek regions and the present extent and mechanisms of government assistance in Greece is not as yet sufficient to arrive at
an accurate assessment as to what the country's real financing, requirements are. On the other hand, for the purposes of illustration, an analogy could be made on the basis of the volume of resources currently put at the disposal of the Regional Fund for the period 1975-77. Within the overall amount, shares of 84 million U.A. , and 520 million U.A. have been set aside for Ireland and Southern Italy respectively. Given regional disparities which may be held to be more
serious than those of either Member State, and adjusting these countries' share pro rata for population size (2), this analogy yields a purely illustrative figure of 100 million U.A. for the single year 1976 . This effort would need to be additional to the amount that would otherwise be required on behalf of the handicapped regions of the present
(1) See Section A and tables 6 and 7
(2) In the case of Italy, the population of the Mezzogiorno only.
In the field of free movement of labour the Athens Agreement already entails the extension to Greece- of the relevant articles of the Treaty of Rome. Implementation of these provisions does not seem to raise major problems, at any rate
not any new problems compared to those of implementing the Association .
Emigration towards the Community, an important factor in Greek economic development during the I960's, seems likely to continue to fall as a result of increasing industrialisation in Greece and changes in the pattern of demand for labour in
the countries of immigration. The level of development of the Greek social security system seems to indicate that the
Community rules can be directly applied by Greece without any techincal difficulties.
Some of the structural adjustments that the future growth of the Greek economy may entail would seem to qualify for the intervention of the Social Fund and the ECSC Fund: a shift
of a substantial section of the agricultural population into other sectors as part of the process of industrialisation may account for a high proportion of this expenditure. The appropriate level of expenditure would be determined by the Commission in the light of need, of the quality of projects
undertaken and of the ability of the Greek Government to bear a proportion of the costs. It would also naturally be influenced by the overall size of the fund decided by the Council. For illustration, however, under the existing Social Fund, in 1975 Ireland obtained about 20 million U.A. and Italy about 100 million U.A. Making some, albeit inexact allowance for Greece's structural problems, a purely illustrative figure of expenditure for Greece from a Social Fund of this size
might be of the order of 40 million U.A.
It should be recalled that Community provisions in the field of co-ordination of monetary and economic policy already exist* In this context, certain of the structural features of the Greek economy should be given particular attention insofar as they may limit the Greek Government 's ability to conform to these provisions upon accession. Thus the country's fiscal structure (very low proportion of direct taxes), its banking system, and its current instruments of internal and external
monetary policy do not appear to be sufficiently developed
to meet Community requirements as they are set out in the Council'sDirectivedated18February1974onstability,growth, '
and full employment in the Community, as well as the Council's decision of the same date concerning the achievement of a high degree of convergence between economic policies.
Greece still applies severe exchange control and other restrictions on most categories of capital transfers, inward and outward. Greek membership would entail acceptance of Community legislation governing the removal of restrictions on capital flows between the Member States.
Further study is needed to evaluate the extent and effect of such changes.
Greece is not associated to the Coal and Steel Community: furthermore, its association to the EEC does not involve a special tariff arrangement to cover trade in ECSC products.
Establishment of the customs union for ECSC products therefore begins from third-country status. It would involve dismantlement of Greek duties and other trade barriers on Community exports.
starting from a relatively high rate of protection as far
as duties are concerned, and adoption towards third countries of CCT rates which are significantly lower than Greec's present tariff on these products. Although the Greek steel industry is showing signs of rapid development, particularly on export markets , accession to the ECSC may therefore require special transitional arrangements.
Similar considerations may apply to the Greek system of state to this sector, whose compatibility with the ECSC will have to be examined in the light of the provisions of the Treaty of Paris. Application by the Nine of the ECSC Treaty provisions to Greece should equally be implemented through suitable transitional arrangements.
Accession to the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), on the other hand, raises no foreseeable difficulty. Greece will have to participate in Euratom supply and research policy. .
As pointed out in section A above, Greece may soon dispose of substantial marketable sources of energy - oil and lignite - which may considerably alleviate pressure on the country's balance of trade, as well as providing a platform for new energy-intensive industries.
Greece does not currently possess major nuclear energy facilities: furthermore, its natural endowment with other sources of energy makes rapid expansion in this field unlikely.
From the point of view of the Community as a whole, however, Greek membership is not likely to affect the overall energy balance to any great extent: on the basis of the information currently available, it is unlikely that Greek production capacity will outstrip domestic demand in the foreseeable future.
Greece will have to apply the Community's preferential arrangements, that is the EFTA agreements, the agreements with the other Mediterranean countries , the Lom6 Convention and the Generalized System of Preferences.
The current share in overall Greek imports of the countries involved is at present relatively limited (6.6$ EFTA, less than 10fo from the 11 Mediterranean countries with whome EEC
preferential or Association agreements exist or are envisaged, 2.5$ACP).(1) Withtheremovaloftariffbarriers,however, these countries could considerably improve their share of the
In the case of specific economic sectors, particularly amongst those which so far benefited from a relatively high level of protection and which do not have a natural competitive advantage, this aspect of membership could give rise to serious problems; further investigation will be required on this point.
Greece will also have to adopt other elements of the common trade policy, like the common liberalization lists, the Multifibre Arrangements, non-preferential bilateral agreements, and here
Finally, Greece will have to participate in the Community's common policy of development co-operation including in particular making a contribution to the EDF.
As in the case of the present new Member States, suitable transitional arrangements may have to be established in the case of some of the Community's agreements with third countries.
(1) Table 11. The 100-plus beneficiaries of the Community's GSF, including some Mediterranean countries, should also
be taken into account although statistics are not available.
The preceding sections give certain indications as to the possible magnitude of the "budgetary consequences of Greek accession in the case of the more important Community policies without taking into account their possible evolution . These figures , which are of a clearly hypothetical nature , sire
bacrcd on the arbitrary assumption that current Community policies are
being fully applied to Greece in a normal year after the necessary ptarting-up
phase in the operation of the funds has taken place. On this basis, there is no need to differentiate between commitments and disbursements.
The following table summarises the indications given above under the respective headings, together with other relatively less important expenditure items .
Administrative and personnel costs
These figures refer to the "Commission" section of the overall budget , and
therefore do not incorporate the financial impact of Greek accession on the other sections .
Reimbursement of lOfo of own resources
Also for illustrative purposes , a preliminary estimate of the likely increase in the Community's own resources as a result of Greek accession is given below. These following figures are based on the 1976 budget , modified in the light
of the expenditure estimates given above . The figure for customs revenue is
based on the assumption that Greece fully applies the CCT and collects no duties on imports from the Community or from the EFTA countries (l).
Expenditure within the 197° budget , to be
met in accordance with the 21 April 1970
Expenditure incurred as a result of
Percentage of the VAT base
(Community of 9) 0.47$
Percentage of the VAT base
(Community of 10) 0.52/S
Own resources to be paid in:
- Customs duties 70 - Agricultural levies (2) 8 - 0.52$ of the VAT base 73
Greece will also incur other financial obligations as a result of membership , and particularly in the form of a contribution to the EIB and to the ECSC . Greece vail also need to make an appropriate contribution to the European Development Fund.
(1) The figure is not however abated to take account of the assumption by Greece of the Community's other preferential arrangements.
(2) Greek membership would imply a reduced perception of 15 MUC/annum upon imports by the "9" from Greece: the incidence upon imports by Greece from third countries is estimated at 5~10 MUC/annum.
The accession of Greece will require adaptations of the composition of all the Community institutions. In addition to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, and the Court of Justice, adaptations will have to be made as.regards the European Investment Bank, the Economic and Social Committee, the ECSC Consultative Committee, and the Monetary Committee.
These adaptations , together with appropriate adaptations to Committees set up under secondary legislation, which will have to be agreed upon in
the Course of the enlargement negotiations , should not give rise to major difficulties .
The prospect of Greek membership also raises a number of issues which are not dealt with in detail here.
Some of these are alluded to in the context of the general economic situation in Greece: transport and tourism for instance. Other issues include education, science and technology, and protection of the environment.
In the light of its preliminary examinations the Commission considers that Greek accession is not likely to create major problems in these fields .
(a) tariff reduction by Greece with respect to Community exports of Annex I Products (Article 15)
Cumulative % reduction of basis fiuty
(b) Alignment by Greece to the OCT for imports from third countries of -products listed in Annex I of the Athens Agreement (Article 20)
Cumulative reduction of difference between Grsek and CCT rate
50 tfo (100 # for products with less than 15 i° difference after first
Tariff reduction/alignment schedules under the Athens agreement)
GDP and per capita GDP, 1973, selected countries.
Indices of industrial production (major industries), 1959 = 100.
Indices of real GDP, selected countries, 1964 - 1973.
- Composition of the labour force, 1961 and 1971.
- Composition of GDP by sectors, 1969 - 1974.
- Area, population, density (1961/1971) and per capita GDP (1972) by region.
Cumulative regional distribution of (a) population and (b) income (Lorenz curves), selected countries.
Invisible Earnings by major source, 1961/1974.
TABLE 9 - Balance of Payments, 1969 - 1974.
TABLE 10 - Overall energy balance sheet by product, 1961, 1970,
and 1973.
TABLE 11 - Geographical composition of Greek imports , 1974 (% .
TABLE 12 - Agricultural production, availability, and eelv- sufficiency, by main product headings, 1965 -
1967 and 1971 - 1974, EEC and Greece.
- Greek exports to the EEC of Annex II (Treaty of Rome) products.
- Greek imports from the EG of Annex II products.
- EEC trade with world , world extra-EEC , Mediterranean, and Greece (1974).
- Greece - EEC balance of trade , 1958 - 1974 .
- Greek trade (world and EEC) by tariff chapter.
- Percentage changes in price indices OECD countries, 1970 - 1975.
Chen i cal s of petr . ¡aetall ic ¡ fornis
Wood and Furniture cork
Vehicles j Miscellaneo"·· 1
and coal ¡ninerals jof Betals1 » ¡nachin. ¡ and other 11
"a+ional Statistical Service of Greece. NOTE: Asfrom 1975, the nonthly index of industrial production coanilod hy th«
l!SS(i has 1970 as its bate year and does not include figures ;for the categories of wood and cork and products of petroleua and coal . However, changes in the figures for these categories are included in the above general index of industrial production.
Agriculture (a) industry (b ) Services & others
(a) Includes : Agriculture; Animal Breeding, Forestry, Pishing.
(b) Includes : Manufacturing, Mining and Quarrying, Electricity, Gas and Water Works;
Source : Bank of Greece, Monthly Statistical Bulletin
Sources : Statistical Yearbook of the Bank of Greece Centre de Programmation et d'Etudes économiques
Tourist Spending Other
S.ource : Bank of Greece, Monthly Statistical Bulletin, March 1963, April I975.
Rate of
Government (67.0) Interest-Dividends-Profits (39.1) Transportation (30.2) Other (56.5)
Balance oil Invisibles
Balance on Current Account
Other private capital1
Capital belonging to banks and
other credit institutions1 Central Bank
Public entity and public enter-.
Foreign suppliers' credit Aid- Reparations- Rcstitutions
OFFICIAL RESERVES (end of period)3
lialauco of Trado
Other
o Amounts of drachmas withdrawn out of foreign exchange deposits by Greek workers and seamen, as well as out of deposits under the Housing Loan Deposit Scheme, arc entered as a foreign exchange inflow in "Invisible receipts" and "Other private capital" and as an outflow in "Capital belonging to banks and other credit insti­ tutions ".
(®) ^Transfer from Bank of Greece reserve of gold sovereigns. (J) Including Greece's gold tranche with the IMF.
Source : Bank of Greece, Report for the year 1975
 1 . Primary Energy Production Energy Sources
Changes in stocks Export s
BUNKERS included BUNKERS excluded
Electrical Energy
Disposal primary energy and
Seconcary energy production 1
Consumption of the "energy" sector and "losses"
Pinal energy consumption
OVERALL ENERGY BALANCE SHEET BY PRODUCT (in thousand. T.E.C.)
IO35/72 5.514 865/68 4.555 08.07 A Abricots 1035/72 4.383 20.02 Ρ Câpres - olives 865/53 4.363 08.02 C Citrons 1035/72 2.835
stand still 25.550 lutres 144.486
Fruits à coques
- Prod , industriels - Prod· Annexe II
Source : OFCD, Mrin Economic Indications,. December 1975.
Finland – Finlande
O• Produktionsindeks for industrien (1959 = 100)*' (forts.)
8 Irland 9 Danmark
Kildet Bank of Greece. Monthly Statistical Bulletin.
Kilder: Statistical Yearbook of the Bank of Greece
Kilde: Bank of Greece. Monthly Statistical Bulletin, March 1963, April 1975*
Produkti on 178 Beholdn. 177 -
Guld IMF-guldkvota
Kilde j Bank of Greece . Rapport for 1975 *
1!! 11i Tyskl and
