L' article 4 paragraphe 1 sous a „,
– investissements industriels
régions frontalières
i) Irland, Mezzogiorno, Norc'irland und West-Berlin;
Communication from the Commission to the Council
Article 2 of Council Regulation N° 724/75 of 18 March 1975 establishing
a European Regional Development Fund requires that the Commission should
in 1977 present to the Council the appropriate proposals for the Community' regional policy and for the Fund during the subsequent period. This
communication from the Commission to the Council is intended to meet tMs commitment .
I. The economic and social background C6-10) 3 II. Aims (11-1^5 5 III. Means of Action (15-58) 7
A. Establishing a comprehensive system of
analysis and policy formulation (15-20) 7
B. Assessment of the regional impact of
Community policies (21-24) 9
" C. Co-ordination of national regional policies(25-32) 10
0. .The Regional Policy Committee (33-36)
E. Strengthening and diversifying financial instruments (37-54)
a ) The European Regional Development Fund
b) Loans for regional development purposes 20 ( 53-54 )
The moment has come for the Community to define clearly an overall concept of Community regional policy for future years and to detail the measures to be adopted within the framework of this policy . Moreover / this Implies certain changes to existing regional policy Instruments : the Regional Policy Committee and the European Regional Development Fund.
The need to define regional policy 1s laid down 1n the Council 's mandate and has been stressed by the European Parliament 1n its Resolution on aspects of Community regional policy to be developed in the future, by the Economic and Social Committee and by the social partners.
In this context, the Commission proposes the development' of specific Community actions. In addition to the general regional policies of the Member States - designed mainly to remedy existing regional imbalances - Community actions will aim to help solve the new problems resulting from the economic and social situation facing the Community at the present time .
Indeed/ the economic and social context within which Community regional policy falls has changed fundamentally since the early seventies when the first measures of Community regional policy were conceived. New problems of adaptation and redevelopment have been added to continuing regional imbalances.
The first part of this paper Is concerned with the analysis of this new economic and social context/ since it is the decisive factor 1n determi­ ning the substance of Community regional policy.
 The aims of Community regional policy are dealt with 1n the second part of the paper. These alms reflect the major problems mentioned above : the reduction of continuing regional imbalances and the prevention of
new regional imbalances arising from the new international economic order or resulting from politics initiated by the Community.
The means required by the Community to meet these aims are the subject
of the third part of the paper. These means include both the development of new methods of analysing problems and preparing decisions and changes in existing instruments and the creation of new ones.
Finally, the Commission takes the view that Community regional policy should be comprehensive. This means that it must be conceived and worked out with the whole Community territory 1n mind; it must aim to give a geographical dimension to all other Community policies from their inception and by the co-ordination of all Community financial instruments, it must help achieve a coherent pattern in all actions in the structural field.
Community decisions on regional policy adopted in 1975 ( 1 ) were essentially the reflection of two facts . First , the progressive establishment of the common market had not achieved the positive results expected in terms of
a better distribution of economic activity throughout Community territory. On the contrary, the richer regions increased in prosperity, and regions with less advanced structures encountered increasing difficulty in taking their place in the economic growth of the market . This was largely a
consequence of the way in which the Treaty was conceived and implemented,with the emphasis mainly on the abolition of barriers to trade. The sustained
growth of the Community economy over this period clearly had positive
results, even in the less favoured regions, but it contributed equally
to hiding the persistent imbalances which had existed before the establish­ ment of the common market .
Irf view of these facts, 1t seemed indispensable to give the Community the means for its own regional policy, since the Community alone was able to assess the real extent of the problems and, by adding its effort to that of the Member States, to contribute to solving the most serious ones.
These preoccupations remain valid. One can now state, some years later, that, despite increased efforts by the Member States and the Community
to speed up the development of least favoured regions, the situation has not changed fundamentally and imbalances between regions remain excessive. The joint effort in this field must therefore be continued and expanded.
Economic and social trends in recent years have furthermore made the situation even more complicated and worrying.
Since 1973 the effect of the economic crisis and the increased cost of raw materials have led to a slower growth rate and less Inclination to invest .
(1) Council regulations and decisions of 18 March 1975, OJ N<> L 73 of 21 March 1975
In an economy where the growth rate has declined in this way, the development of the weaker regions Is seriously affected, and the persis- tance of regional Imbalances go so far as to threaten the proper function­ ing of the common market Itself. Indeed, not only do the less favoured regions fail to integrate fully within the Community, but the problems to which they give rise become an increasingly heavy burden on national economies and thus Increase the pressure on the public authorities concerned to refuse the constraints Inherent in the mechanisms of Community inte­ gration. It Is moreover an illusion to hope for the alignment of Member States' economies so long as regional imbalances continue to weigh so heavily on the economies of some.
Beyond these facts, the new international division of labour now emerging gradually is imposing major structural changes on the Community economy, thereby creating new seeds of regional imbalance.
In the light- of this situation, Community regional policy must become
more ambitious than in the past. The task is not merely to ensure the proper functioning of market rules, with some compensations to the least favoured regions . It is clear that , even at a time of sustained growth , this was unable to make a sufficient contribution to solving regional imbalances. On the contrary, the aim is to undertake comprehensive measures for the structural adaptation both of the regions which were inadequately developed even before the establishment of the common market, and regions facing or likely to face difficult problems of restructuring and redevelopment.
It follows from this situation that Community regional policy must be strengthened and its field of application expanded. This is not only desirable : it is now one of the conditions of continuing European economic integration.
Community decisions on regional policy adopted 1n 1975<1> were essentially the reflection of two facts. First, the progressive establishment of the common market had not achieved the positive results expected in terms of
a better distribution of economic activity throughout Community territory. On the contrary, the richer regions increased in prosperity, and regions with less advanced structures encountered increasing difficulty in taking
their place in the economic growth of the market . This was largely a consequence of the way in which the Treaty was conceived and implemented,with the emphasis mainly on the abolition of barriers to trade. The sustained
growth of the Community economy over this period clearly had positive
results, even In the less favoured regions, but it contributed equally
to hiding the persistent Imbalances which had existed before the establish­ ment of the common market .
In" view of these facts, 1t seemed Indispensable to give the Community the means for its own regional policy, since the Community alone was able to assess the real extent of the problems and, by adding its effort to that of the Member States, to contribute to solving the most serious ones.
These preoccupations remain valid . One can now state , some years later , that, despite increased efforts by the Member States and the Community
to speed up the development of least favoured regions, the situation has not changed fundamentally and imbalances between regions remain excessive. The joint effort in this field must therefore be continued and expanded.
Economic and social trends in recent years have furthermore made the situation even more complicated and worrying.
Since 1973 the effect of the economic crisis and the increased cost of raw materials have led to a slower growth rate and less Inclination to invest .
(1) Council regulations and decisions of 18 March 1975, OJ N° L 73 of 21 March 1975
 In an economy where the growth rate has declined 1n this way, the development of the weaker regions Is seriously affected, and the persis­ tence of regional imbalances go so far as to threaten the proper function­ ing of the common market itself. Indeed/ not only do the less favoured regions fail to integrate fully within the Community/ but the problems to which they give rise become an increasingly heavy burden on national economies and thus increase the pressure on the public authorities concerned to refuse the constraints inherent in the mechanisms of Community inte­ gration. It is moreover an illusion to hope for the alignment of Member States' economies so long as regional imbalances continue to weigh so heavily on the economies of some.
Beyond these facts/ the new international division of labour now emerging gradually is imposing major structural changes on the Community economy/ thereby creating new seeds of regional imbalance.
In the light- of this situation, Community regional policy must become
more ambitious than in the past. The task is not merely to ensure the proper functioning of market rules, with some compensations to the least favoured regions . It is clear that , even at a time of sustained growth , this was unable to make a sufficient contribution to solving regional imbalances . On the contrary , the aim is to undertake comprehensive ^ measures for the structural adaptation both of the regions which were inadequately developed even before the establishment of the common market, and regions facing or likely to face difficult problems of restructuring and redevelopment.
It follows from this situation that Community regional policy must be strengthened and its field of application expanded. This is not only t desirable : it is now one of the conditions of continuing European
11. Community regional policy has two main aims; firstly to reduce existing regional imbalances, which appear both in regions traditionally less favoured and in those involved in a process of industrial or agricultural reconversion; secondly to
prevent new regional imbalances arising as a consequence of the new international
economic order or of measures adopted by the Community within the framework of
its own policies. The achievement of these aims implies a close co-operation
between the Community and each Member State and the realisation of a variety of tasks .
12. The tasks involve firstly the permanent analysis and assessment of the situation and trends of regional economies over the whole Community territory, principally,
though not only, in the employment field, to assess the range and nature of the regional imbalances affecting the integration process at Community level.
Secondly they require that Community policies and financial instruments, structural and other, are used in a coherent and convergent way, where their consequences
may, at one time or another, have a regional impact, in particular in terms of income. Thirdly there must be co-ordination of the regional policies of Member States , both mutually and in relation to Community aims . Fourthly and finally ,
is the question of a policy on financial assistance (Regional Fund); on the one hand, this takes the form of support for national regional policies, and on the other hand it must be a catalyst in working out and applying specific development and reconversion measures at Community level .
13. These aims and their achievement fall within the framework of an active employment policy . In the present economic situation of the Community , the
creation of new jobs in regions where structural unemployment is greatest must
be a priority task. On the basis of the results of studies on regional employment balances and th.e regional development programme the Community should establish quantified targets for each region, with a fixed time schedule, as far as jobs are concerned .
Indeed, the adjustments required for the balanced development of Community economic activities cannot be achieved by large scale migratory movements; better distribution of the factors of production within the Community economic area must be achieved by creating new jobs in regions of structural under­ employment and alternative jobs in regions affected the need to renew and convert their productive structure .
Moreover , its comprehensive approach now places Community regional policy
in the perspective of Community regional planning . I implementing the policy , the Commission will, in this context, make an effort to promote rational land use of space, a balanced distribution of activities over the whole Community territory and effective protection of the environment and living conditions.
 III . Weans of action
A- Establishing a comprehensive system of analysis and policy formulation
15. A comprehensive approach to regional policy involves strengthening the system
of analysis and assessment of the regional economies of the Community as a whole and of their respective developments.
This analysis should include all regions and be as exhaustive as possible. Indeed, a detailed knowledge of the development of all regions/ including the relatively prosperous regions which supply a large part of the resources required/ will assist in diagnosing and remedying regional problems.
16. With this intention / the tasks to be undertaken are :
- to analyse regional trends and/ in particular/ to consider how far regional disparities have developed;
- to pinpoint regions facing or likely to face problems of Community size; - to work out a joint method for assessing the results of national and
Community regional policies;
- to provide the statistical and methodological basis needed to assess the
regional effects of Community policies.
17. A special effort to improve statistics beyond what is currently available is needed in this respect/ both by Member States and by the Community. This statistical tool includes a number of key regional indicators to be worked
out on a Community basis / such as overall and sectoral employment / the forecast
employment shortage / the migratory balance / product and income per head of population and per employed person, actual and potential fiscal capacity/ and data on the level and needs in terms of public infrastructure. The establishment of forecast regional employment balances is of special importance here in
•indicating the'regions needing Community help.
The examination and consideration and assessment of the situation of each region should be undertaken within the framework of the comprehensive analysis
of the Community's economic situatiion and of the general economic policy measures which it requires.
18. On the basis of this work as a whole, the Commission will present to the Council a draft two-yearly report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the Community. This report is intended to set out the conditions needed for the effective co-ordination of national regional policies, to indicate the principle Community-level regional problems and to assess the results achieved by the co-ordination of actions of the Member States and the Community to deal with these problems. This being a Community respon­
it should be discussed by the Council at regular consulting the Parliament and the Economic and the report and fix priority regional development
sibility it is desirable that
intervals . The Council , after
Social Committee, would adopt
aims at Community level and, following from that, guidelines, for national and Community regional policies.
19. The procedure for examining the report should follow that provided for in Article 4 of the Council decision of 18 February 1974 on achieving a high degree of alignment of the economic policies of Member States of the EEC. To this end, the draft report will be accompanied by opinions of the Economic Policy and the Regional Policy Committees so as to guarantee consistency between economic and regional policy 1 ) . The first such examination should be in 1979 .
20. This analytical and conceptional work should be extended to cover also the effectiveness of the means and instruments used so as to build up a coherent system for assessing results. This is a complicated problem which can only be solved by stages, and by taking account of the findings of studies undertaken and experience gained within the Community.
To this end, the Regional Policy Committee will continue to study these problems concentrating on the effectiveness of disincentive measures, the evaluation of direct regional aids and working out a method for assessing results. This work should be completed and available before the end of 1979 so that the Commission and the Council, when considering the two-yearly report, can establish guidelines for Community regional poli.cy.
1) Draft modified decisions attached in Annex I.
®• Assessment of the regional impact of Community policies ( Regional impact assessment = RIA )
21. The Commission considers it indispensable that from now on the geogra­ phical demension should be assessed and taken account of in the formu­
lation and implementation of each Community policy/ old as well as new.
This will permit the adoption of policies which take account of their
impact on the regions and/ where necessary/ of the regional policy measures
required so that the aims of these policies can be met In full or any negative regional effects corrected.
22. To this end, the establishment of the comprehensive system of analysis
and assessment of regional economies within the Community should be supplemented by the systematic assessment of the regional consequences
of Community policies each time that new measures are contemplated.
This overall approach will enable the geographical dimension to be defined and introduced into all Community policies. It implies the communication to the Commission of accurate sectoral and regional statistical data.
23. Each Commission proposal to apply Community policies will be accompanied by an assessment of the regional consequences of those policies. These assessments will be introduced progressively during the next four years; the Commission will apply this procedure as a matter of priority to agricultural and fisheries policies/ steel policy/ thb overall approach of its external policy in the Mediterranean/ and employment policy.
Among the regional consequences of Community policies/ RIA s will give special consideration to the impact on employment/ though not neglecting other factors effecting regional equilibrium such as produc­ tivity, earned income and migration.
In this way RIAs will create a systematic link between regional policy and every other Community policy. The balanced development of economic
activity over the whole Community territory also requires the co-ordina­ tion of the various Community policies and financial instruments and
corresponding co-ordination of the policies of Member States.
Co-ordination of natlonal regional policies
The two-yearly report on Community regional development , and the aims
and guidelines fixed by the Council will form the basis for periodical comparison of regional problems in the different Member States and of national regional policies.
26. This comparison which constitutes at the same time the first stage of co-ordination must cover national regional policies and take account of
the various structural measures undertaken . This involves regional aids , sectoral aids, which have a regional impact, including those to agricul­ ture, infrastructure projects with a direct or indirect regional impact
and financial transfers between regions within a State . This co-ordination , gradually and coherently developed, must 1n due course lead to a better regional allocation of resources.
27. In this connection, regional development programmes are a particularly important instrument . They should specify the requirements , alms and
priorities of each region and the means necessary and available to achieve them. Their consideration at Community level will enable account to be taken of Community alms and constraints both 1n the regional and in the sectoral field, and to define the limits of Community aid. In so far as these programmes concern frontier regions, co-ordinating infrastructure projects will be a priority task.
National budgets will indicate the resources received from the Regional Fund, but it is at the level of these programmes that the complementary nature of Community action and that of the Member States will be ensured, thus guaranteeing a speeding up of the overall regional development effort.
of region with different aid ceilings :
28. The system of co-ordination currently used by the Commission 1n /A\
divides the Community into four categories
1) Ireland, the Mezzogiorno, Northern Ireland and West-Berlin; ii) certain areas of France, Italy and the United Kingdom;
111) the "Zonenrandgebiet" and certain areas of Denmark; iv) other Community areas.
The new system of co-ordination of regional aids, planned for 1978, will seek in particular to perfect the supervision of those aids which cannot
be subject to ceilings, while ensuring appropriate treatment for employment subsidies .
Moreover It will seek to limit the regional aid policies of the Member States to those actions which have a real effect on the development of the regions .
29. A mechanism' for co-ordination of aid systems refined in this way 1s essential for the harmonious development of economic activities over the whole Community territory, by the balance it must ensure between the preoccupations of regional development and those of preserving competition.
Aid systems must be adapted to the development and reconversion requirej^ ments of the regions and not the financial resources of the Member States.
An appropriate differentiation of rates of aid between regions can give to those with the greates need, aid development potential and real chance of taking their place in the Common Market.
30. Finally co-ordination will be extended progressively to disincentive measures . * These are already in force in some Member States . However , to be effective, both at national and Community level, the limitation sought on economic concentration must be accompanied by expansion in the development and reconversion regions. This cannot happen so long as a firm prevented from Investing in one Community region has no difficulty in investing 1n another Community region of like concentration where disincentive measures are not applied.
(1) Cf; doc. C0M(75) final of 26 February 1975
31. Studies in this field ape in progress and the Regional Policy Committee
is instructed to report to the Commission and the Council by the end of 1979 so that disincentives may be included in the system of co-ordination of regional aids . As from 1980 therefore , the Community territory should be divided into six categories of region, one of which will have a negative aid ceiling, that is a minimum level of disincentives.
32. When the result of studies in progress is known, disincentives, co-ordinated
at Community level , will , especially in a later period of investment growth , be able to make an effective contribution to a new distribution of human
activity throughout the Community in the perspective of European physical planning .
 - 13 - D. The Régional Policy Committee
33. The various measures presented in this communication should, when applied, confirm and strengthen the role of the Regional Policy Committee.
Consultation of the Committee on the two~yearly report to be adopted by the Council on a proposal from the Commission, under the procedures mentioned above, will give a more direct political impact to accomplising one of the tasks given to it, namely to study the development of the economic and social situation in the different regions of the Community.
34. Systematic communication to the Committee of all reports examining the regional consequences of existing Community policies as well as the RIAs which have led to proposals to modify policies or to undertake specific regional measures, will enable it to be better informed on the geographical dimension of all Community policies and where appropriate to look into alternative solutions in terms of Community policy.
35. The conclusions to be drawn by the Committee from its examination of
disincentive measures^of the development of direct regional development aids and the elaboration of a method for assessing results will contribute
directly to the elaboration of the proposals to be put forward in these various fields .
36. Lastly, the Commission shares the wish recorded by the European Parliament in its resolution of 21 April 1977 to see the people of the regions concerned and their representatives associated with the preparation of Community regional policy. They are already involved in Its implementation at the level of Investment projects carried out. The rules of procedure
of the Regional Policy Committee( 1 ) also provide expressly for this possibility ( 2 )
(1) O.J. No. L.320 of 11 December 1975 (2) Article 5(2) states :
"When items on the agenda are of concern to particular regions,
the committee, 1f members appointed by the Member State concerned think it useful to do so, may take evidence, either orally or in writing, from institutional representatives or from other interested parties from the regions concerned."
E. Strengthening and diversifying the financial Instruments of Community regional policy
a ) The European Regional Development Fund ( ERDF)
37. By applying all the various means mentioned above, the Commission will be able to have a tangible influence on the development of the regions in the Community. The ERDF has a special place among these instruments; The proposals of the Commission in this respect,'as enclosed
in Annex II, show the Commission's desire to make these instruments of regional policy more efficient and more relevant. In the view of the Commission, Fund assistance should be available both to support the regional development measures of the Member States and for specific actions in order to take account of the regional effects of existing and future Community policies. This dual role would involve dividing ERDF resources into two sections : a quota section - the more important one - for which national quotas would apply, would be intended to finance general support measures,and a non-quota section for which the resources would be reserved for specific actions.
38. To enable the ERDF to fact up to the present regional situation in the Community it is necessary to enlarge its means of action and, if necessary, the geographical field in which it can act. To have the maximum impact, the ERDF should however be concentrated on the most acute regional
problems affecting the proper functioning of the Community; to this end precise priorities should be developed in each region. As a further step, Community aid will develop its own characteristics by stages through implementing specific actions linked to Community policies.
Indeed the task is to gradually create, as Community regional policy develops,, a number of instruments and financial mechanisms intended to acTapt Community actions to regional policy aims, either in order to supplement or to reinforce the actions of Member States.
Additionally, the financial rules governing ERDF contributions could be
differentiated according to the economic activites concerred; for instance, where the tertiary sector is concerned, ERDF assistance could be linked to jobs created rather than to expenditure on fixed investment.
Moreover, a special action by the Community will in particular help small and
medium-sized firms to have access to Community credit facilities, such as the
European Investment Bank, by introducing a system of interest relief grants and
guarantees of exchange rate risks on Community loans for regional policy purposes.
This special intervention may cover ell four types of regional problems as described below .
Currently the Commission is faced with four types of regional problems, which decide the geographical field of ERDF assistance:
- the under-development of a number of regions, which, despite sustained efforts, continue to be substantially in arrear and which will require massive Community aid for a long time to come yet;
- industrial or agricultural changes, as they have appeared in the last quarter of a century in numerous regions of the Community, and which
require measures of development and reconversion in which the Community
must share over a period, which will doubtless be shorter and less intensive than for the first category;
- current or expected problems created in some regions by one or other existing or future Community policy and which calls for a Community contribution each time the consequences reach a certain size;
- special problems of frontier regions.
ERDF contributions to solving the first two types of problem correspond to the quota section of the Fund. Other contribution would be financed from the non-quota section of the Fund .
40. Two distinct categories of region correspond to the first two types of problem. In contrast, the third and fourth types of problem may occur both
inside and outside each of the first two categories of region. Certain areas within those categories could therefore benefit from ERDF assistance both from the quota and the non-quota sections. In such cases, the principles governing coordination of regional aids must be invoked.
The Mezzogiorno , Ireland , Northern Ireland , Greenland and the French overseas departments fall within the first category. Taken together they have 26 million inhabitants and have to date received 55 % of ERDF resources.
These are the regions of the Community most in arrear ; geographicall y they are located on the Community's periphery, which is an additional obstacle to their integration . Community assistance is the more justified since , in some cases, the Member States concerned do not have the financial capacity to solve this problem from their own resources.
'The task of the Commission is long term in this first category of region and consists mainly in accel lerating development to give the regions a basic economic structure both in the form of infrastructure and of a fabric
of directly productive activities, which will enable them to become compe­ titive and to integrate into the Community. Moreover, as the European Par­ liament has stressed, the Community should be able to help in those regions
on behalf of social infrastructure, education and vocational training, in so far as these contribute directly to regional development, since the high cost and absence of immediate return is a heavy charge on the Member States concerned .
The second category includes regions * which have experienced development and conversion problems for many years due to structural changes in both the industrial and agricultural sectors, .and where the problems, because
of serious under-employment, are so substantial that they affect the proper functioning of the Community. Within this category the Community contribu­ tion is to support and increase development efforts in agricultural regions and the changes needed in industrial regions, particularly by influencing the flow of investment .
These regions, which differ from those in the first category, correspond mainly to priority regions and areas eligible for Fund assistance under the present regulation. Their problems are sufficiently serious for their solution to require Community help as well.
43. The third category of region, which in general is located inside the two first categories, consists of regions more especially affected by the application of certain Community policies. The actual or estimated regional impact of these policies can be assessed by way of the RIAs. The Community must act in those regions-provided the Member State concerned does likewise - through Community regional policy, either by supplementary measures to facilitate the application of these policies, or by measures
to correct any negative effects whenever the consequences are such as to affect the proper functioning of the Community.
44. .The fourth category concerns Community frontier regions; they generally feel the effects of integration more acutely; in consequence, problems of development or conversion often arise.
45 . The serious nature of under-development /regions of the first category requires prolonged financial assistance from the Community. The resources available here would fall within the quota section of the ERDF. In each country concerned these regions should receive annually in this respect, a contribution at least equal, in real value , to the contribution reserved for it in the previous year.
46.The same guarantee applies to the second category, it being understood that the situation of those regions will be the subject of periodical examination within the framework of the two-yearly report (cf.18). If it should appear that the problems of one of these regions are no longer of a size to affect the proper functioning of the Community, and in particular that the region
no longer has serious under-employment, it will no longer receive a guarantee of ERDF assistance . It might , if the need arose , receive an ERDF contribution under the conditions laid down for the third category.
47.ERDF assistance for the third category of region is directly linked to the application of certain existing or future Community policies. This excludes an a priori distribution of the resources available between Member States. Indeed, the nature, location and size of these regional problems depends on the policy concerned, on the type of measure envisaged and on the general economic situation at the time the policy is applied. As Community policies develop; this category of region will become more and more important within the ambit of ERDF contribution .
48.For the category comprising the frontier regions there is also no reason to provide for an a priori distribution of Fund resources since, in view of the nature of the problems, there are no grounds for such a system.
49.The ERDF therefore includes four types of contribution determined according to the kinds of regional problem facing the Community. Each corresponds to a separate budget item but only the first and second imply an a priori distribution of resources between Member States; those allocated to the third and fourth derive from the effect on certain regions of applying certain Community policies and from special situations in frontier regions. To this must be added other budgetary items corresponding to special interventions of the Community in the form of interest relief grants and guarantees of exchange rate risks.
50. The resources of the non-quota section of the ERDF will be the subject
of a balanced distribution between Member States over a three year period and will be calculated partly on the financial capacity of Member States and partly in view of the serious nature/ size and urgency of the regional problems. The geographical area of the specific non-quota sections depends on the location of the sector and the production concerned by the Community policies and by the situation of the frontier regions concerned. The balanced distribution covers all of these actions and not necessarily each of them individually.
51. The Community will contribute in each of the four regional categories
by way of grants , loans and guarantees . However , in view of the varying degrees of gravity and kind of problems and taking account of the financial capacity of States concerned, Community aid should differ accordingly.
To this end the rate of Community participation are differentiated.
The highest rates are reserved for regions the most in arrear. The loans are available in all the regions, but the interest relief grants are differentiated with respect to the type of problems encountered.
52. ERDF contributions in each of the four categories of region will be concerned both with investment in infrastructure which should contribute
to regional economic development and to improving the standard of living of the peoples concerned and with investments, which are directly produc­ tive, both in the industrial and service sectors. For the last category there is also provision for aid by way of Job creation grants. For each of these four categories of region, the Community will assist priority projects or groups of projects which contribute most to develop­ ment or reconversion; these priority projects will be adopted by region on the basis of regional development programmes and in the light of Community aims and rules.
b) Loans for regional development purposes
53. The scale and diversity of regional imbalances facing the Community
and Member States will require considerable financial resources for several years . In view of the Community 's budgetary limitations a substantial increase in resources for Community regional policy, in proportion to its aims , seems unlikely . The Community must therefore , in particular as concerns regional policy, develop a financial programme based on both its budgetary effort and its capacity to make loans over and above the current facilities of the European Investment Bank and
the Coal and Steel Community. The Commission will make appropriate proposals to the Council.
54. Community loan resources for regional development should form an integral part of Community regional policy resources and should therefore be suited to the aims of that policy. Community regional development measures
must therefore be programmed taking account of regional requirements and the relative advantages of budget financing and loan financing. The financial programme of Community regional measures will be fixed on the basis of regional development programmes and the indications they provide on the financial resources which the Member State intends to allocate
for their implementation.
55. Apart from the regional information activity already undertaken within the framework of Commission information policy, in particular on the Regional Fund, and principally aimed at the general public, there should be a special information effort for potential investors and those responsible for regional development.
56. The Commission, in order to demonstrate at Community level the important
role which regional policy can play in economic renewal, intends to
arrange in the summer of 1978 a "Conference on Community regional
development : investment and jobs". Representatives of trade union and
employers organisations in the Member States and potential investors will be invited.
57. In addition, the outcome of Community regional studies will be publicised more systematically . Beyond that , regional studies jointly financed by the Commission and Member States can provide technical assistance for the regions. They are more especially concerned with the preparation of regional development programmes and the co-ordinated use of Community financial instruments and those of Member States.
58. For the benefit of potential investors and those responsible for regional development the Commission, in collaboration with Member States, will prepare a publication setting out, according to an agreed outline, the
aid systems and other benefits available in the different member countries. The Commission will spell out the priorities of Community regional policy and will indicate regions eligible for Community aid. This publication will be brought up to date periodically.
59. Community regional activity is a permanent task. It therefore falls within a process of change, which implies continual redefining of its aims and stages, both in the Member States and at Community level. The guidelines elaborated in this communication should govern activity in the coming years .
These governing principles concern a wide range of regional problems which in different ways affect Community territory as a whole. Their principal purpose
is to reduce existing regional imbalances and to anticipate the emergence of new problems linked with changing structure of the Community economy. :
60. The changes forecast within the Community call for the introduction of a development strategy which will introduce into all Community policies the ' geographical dimension of the problems to be solved. Regional policy will contribul in this way to ensuring consistency of policies and measures across the whole range of Community economic activity. To carry out its responsibilities with respect to the past and the future the Community rrust equip itself with adequate tools of analysis and assessment and means of action which are suited to the nature and extent of the regional problems to be solved. These responsibilities will lead to a strengthening regional policies in each Member State, greater co-ordination of these, and the development of the Community 's own activities .
61. The size of this task requires mechanisms able to grasp regional problems in all their aspects and to indicate the guidelines for co-ordinated joint action by the Member States . and the Community . The creation of a " Standing Committee
for Regional Policy ", comparable in form and composition
Committee on Employment", would allow for regular comparison of the choices before the Community and the Member States.
to the " Standing
62. The financial resources of Community regional policy must therefore be coordinated so as to support both national efforts and the Community's own activity. This double requirement requires the development of financial resources, in particular by a suitable policy on loans, and the specification in the budget of whether resources are used support for national efforts or for the Community 's own measures .
63. The Community will be confronted in the near future by regional problems of countries who are candidates for joining the Community. It has already examined certain of these problems, for example in working out the Mediterranian aspects of its external policy. The Commission and
the Member States will have jointly to undertake an overall examination of the situation in order to assess the nature and extent of the problems which will stem from enlargement.
Community regional policy as defined in this paper should enable all the countries concerned to work out the solutions needed.
In this respect, the drawing up of general guidelines for the Community in the field of regional policy is an essential step in preparing the Community of tomorrow.
 DRAFT MODIFICATIONS to the
COUNCIL DECISION ( 1 ) of 18 February 1974
on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the Member States of the European Economic Community
Every two years, and for the first time in 1979, on the occasion of the third examination defined in Article A above, the Council shall- adopt,
on the basis of a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the Assembly, the Economic and Social Committee, the Economic Policy Committee and the Regional Policy Committee, a two-yearly report on the social and economic situation and trends in the regions of the Community, and shall fix the guidelines to be followed by each Member State and by the Community in their regional policies over the two following years".
COUNCIL DECISION ( 2 ) of 18 March 1975
Add To Article 2 a paragraph 3 the text of which is as follows:
3. "Every two years the Committee shall formulate an opinion on the preliminary
draft, prepared by the Commission, of the report on the social and economic situation and trends in the regions of the Community, which opinion will be
annexed to the draft report which the Commission will submit to the Council within th£ framework of the procedure provided for in the Council decision of 18 February 1974 on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the Member States of the European Economic Community".
(1) O.J. N° L 63 of 5 March 1974 (2) O.J. N° L 73 of 21 March 1975
 Commission of the European Communities
Directorate General for Regional Policy
of l8th March. 1975
establishing a European Regional Development Pund
1. This text includes the whole of the regulation
2« Additions to the basic text are underlined
3, Deletions in the basic text are indicated by /7 •7
The resources of the Fund intended for financing these activities sha.ll be distributed in accordance rith the following table:
Netherlands
Federal Republic of Germany United Kingdom
TITLE I : Preliminary provisions
The European Regional Development Fund. .Jt hereinafter referred to as 'the Fund' , is_ intended to correct the principal regional imbalances x/ithin the Community CI....J.
1• As_ from the "budgetary year 1973» the allocation for the Fund shall be determined annually by the "budget of' the European Communities .
2. The annual budget shall indicate for the relevant year under the Fund heading :
a. commitment appropriations; br payment appropriations.
Save i here otherwise provided for in special provisions laid dom in this Regulation, the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Communities shall apply to the management of the Fund.
3 . The follor ing may be financed by the Fund T"ith a vier to contributing to the realisation of the objectives referred to in Article 1 :
a. Community action in support of regional policy measures taken by the Member States, as provided for in Title II of this Regulation .
. b* Specific Community regional development measures as provided for m Title III of this Regulation _ :
The.Khole of the Fund 's resources for financing . these measures during
a three year period shall be distributed in a "balanced manner over the the Community's territory taking account of the relative intensity
of regional imbalances shorn by , in particular , the following indicators :
- the trend of unemployment rates in the regions during the preceding five years;
- the percentage of the active population occupied in agriculture ;
- the percentage of the active population occupied in declining industrial sectors ;
- the region's migration balance during the preceding five years;
- the fiscal and financial resources of the Member States.
1. Regions and areas x;hich may benefit from the Fund shall be limited to those aided areas established by Member States in applying their systems
of regional aids and in v-hich State aids are granted vhich qualify for Fund assistance . -
Dftien aid from the Fund is granted, priority shall be given to invest­ ments ./ in nationally aided areas vhose priority has been recog¬ nised. From 1980 these :oones shall be defined every t"o years by the Council on a proposal from the Commission.
2• The Fund may intervene T'ithin the frame'ork of measures provided for in Article 2(3)(b), in favour or regions and areas other than those referred to in "pgjg.gra.ph 1 , provided that the Member State concerned
also intervenes .
agency responsible , on a similar basis as a public authority , for the creation of infrastructures .
Investments in infrastructures covered in Article 3(2 ) of the Council Directive on mountain and hill farming and farming in certain less favoured a.reas, provided that the less-favoured area in ouestion corresponds to or is located vithin one of the regions or areas covered by Article 3 of this Regulation. /
• -'fe- rQgEe.qjL.jp Community action in support of regional policy measures taken by the Member States. the Fund, may contribute to the financing! of investments 'hich individually exceed 50»000 units of account , and come under any of the following categories :
Investments in industrial , handicraft , or service activities'' t-hich are economically sound and vhich benefit from State regional : aids , provided that atleast 10 jobs are created or maintained . In the latter case , the investments should fall
" ithin the framew ork of a conversion or restructuring plan to ensure that the undertaking concerned is competitive. Preference shall , however , be given to operations vhich both maintain existing jobs and create nev jobs.
Service activities qualifying for assistance shall be those con­ cerned "ith tourism and those ; hich have a choice of location . Such activities should have a direct impact on the development of the region and on the level of employment.
For the purpose of this Article, B. group of investments ^rhich are
related geographically , and financially , and '.hich together comply • ^:i~fcfr "the criteria provided for in this Article, may be considered
Investments in infrastructures . . %.~7/ rhich contribute to the
development of the region in Thich they o,re located and are
' ' financed v;holly or in part by public authorities or by any other
2 . The amount of tne Fund 's contribution shall "be :
a. In respoct of investments covered by paragraph 1 a. , 20 of the investment cost without hoi-'ever exceeding 50 % of the aid accorded to each investment by public authorities under a system of regional aids, such contributions being limited moreover to that part of the investment " hich does not exceed 100,000 units of account per job crea/ted and 50,000 units of account per job maintained.
In the case of the service sector, by derogation from the preceding sub-paragraph , the Fund 's contribution may exceed 20 % of the cost of the investment • itliout however exceeding 10,000 units of account per .job created or maintained, nor 50 7' of national aids including aids related to transfer of 'orkers .
The State aids to be taken into consideration in this connection shall be grants , interest rebates , or their equivalent vhere loans at
reduced rates of interest are concerned, whether these aids are linked to the investment or to the . number of ojobs created . The aid e<ruivalent
./shall be calculated in accordance vith an implementing Regulation referred to in Article 17. The aid granted in the form of rent rebates or exemptions from payments of rents of buildings , including equipment may a.lso be taken into account, provided that this form of calculation can be applied.
The contribution from; the Fund thus defined may, pursuant to a prior decision of the Member State concerned communicated at the same time
as the request for this contribution, either supplement aid granted
to the relevant investment by public authorities or remain credited to those authorities and considered as a partial repayment of such aid.
 b« In respect of investments covered by paragraph l*b« and c,
30 ja of the expenditure incurred by public authorities when the invest­
ment is lees than 5 million units of account , and from 10 to 30 % ' maximum for investments of 5 million units of account or more#
These rates may however reach 50 % in favour of projects which are of particular interest for the development of the region, in Greenland , in the French overse as departments , in Ireland , in the Me^.zogiorno , and in northern Ireland /T. .. .T7
The Fund 's assistance shall be decided by the Commission
according to the relative severity of the economic imbalance of the region where the investment is made and the direct or indirect effect of the investment on employment . The Commission shall examine , in particular, the consistency of the investment with the range of actions undertaken by the relevant Member State in favour of the region concerned, as apparent from information supplied by Member States pursuant to Article 6 and taking special account of :
a. the investments contribution to the economic development of the region ;
b. the consistency of the investment with the Community's programmes or objectives;.
c# the situation of the economic sector concerned and the profita­ bility of the investment ;
d, whether the investment falls within a frontier area, that is to say, within adjacent regions of separate Member States;
e. other contributions made by Community institutions or by the
European Investment Bank, either to the same investment or to other activities within the same region. Thus contributions from the Fund will be co-ordinated with other Community contributions, in such a way as to favour a range, of converging and co-ordinated actions within a given region and to guarantee in particular con­ sistency between regional policy and structural policy. /
2, a, The Fund's assistance shall be decided, "by the Commission for in­ vestment projects of five million units of account or more in
, accordance,withtheprocedurelaiddowninArticle16(Fund Committee .
b. The: Commission shall inform the Management Committee of the Fund of decisions adopted for investment projects of less than five million units of accounts The procedure laid down in Article 16 (Fund Committee) shall however be applicable :
- for draft negative decisions when the Member States so request ; ~ for all other draft decisions on which the Commission wishes to
have the opinion of the Fund Committee ,
• 1, Investments may benefit from the Fund's assistance only if they fall within the framework of a regional development programme such that the implementation of which may contribute correction of the main regional imbalances within the Community, (Art. 6) which are likely to prejudice the satisfactory functioning of the Common Market and the progressive convergence of the economies of Member States with a view in particular to the attainment of economic and monetary union,
, 2, Regional development programmes shall be established according to the joint outline approved by the Regional Policy Committee-^
3. MemberStatesshallnotifytheCommissionofregionaldevelopmentpro­ grammes J and alterations made to the programmes already notified.
Am The Committee for Regional Policy /T«,«,«./shall be consulted.about the programmes. The Commission shall examine these programmes, having
regard to the provisions of the Treaty and the decisions adopted by
Community institutions,
5• MemberStatesshallbringtheirregionaldevelopmentprogrammesupto date before 31 January each year by supplying the Commission with all
useful information for the year in question in so far as this is not ■ already available in the programmes on :
a, the financial resources allocated to regional development within the framework of their programmes;
1/ Official Journal of the European Communities IT0 C69 of 24 March,19^6, •/ •
the priority measures on regional development which they intend to implement ! ■
the use they intend to.mako of Community resources and , in particular , of resources from the Fund , in implementing those priority measures .
"6v Member States" -shall provide the Commission with an overall statistical summary "before 30 June each year indicating "by region for the previous year :
a• the results achieved in the region, particularly in terms of investment and employment ;
b. the financial means employed ;
c. the use to which Community resources, particularly the resources of the Fund , have been put .
Member States shall submit requests for assistance from the Fund to the Commission and shall indicate any factors which will allow the
Commission to assess the value of the investments proposed in the light of the criteria laid down in Article 6.
In respect of the investments referred to in Article 4(l) of an
amount less than^million units of accountj Member States shall
present their global requests at the beginning of each quarter.
They shall group these requests by regions and shall separate invest­ ments referred to in Article 4(l)a. from investments in infrastructure. These requests shall indicate :
a. In respect of the investments referred to in Article 4(l)a., the names of the undertakings' concerned, the sector of their activity and the location of each investment, also its character,foundation, extension , conversion or restructuring of the relevant concern , the tirtal amount of investment involved, the predicted overall
of each
effect on employment (creation or maintenance), estimates regarding the implementation schedule ,* total aids granted for which a contri­ bution from the Fund is requested and the schedule la,id do;m for
their payment.
In respect of investment
investments in infrastructure , the location
■*.«T7its contribution to the development of the region,
the predicted total costs and the costs borne by public authorities and the schedule laid down for their payment, the name of the res­ ponsible authorities, the total contribution requested from the Fund and estimates regarding the implementation schedule ,
3, In respect of investments of ^ million units of account or more, requests shall be presented separately and shall include the following infor­ mation :
a. In respect of the investments referred to in Article 4(l)a» the name of the undertaking, the sector of activity, the nature of the investment , its location , the effect on employment , the implementa­ tion schedule , the grants , interest rebates or loans at reduced
: rates of interest and the schedule laid down for the payment of such aids, any other form of aid granted or provided for by public authorities and the financing plan, indicating in particular any other Community aids requested or provided for.
The Member State shall sta,te in its request the total aid which in its opinion should be granted to the undertaking and the contribu­ tion it is seeking from the Community.
b# In respect of investments in infrastructure ,
the nature of the investment, its location
bution to the development of the region , its
its implementation schedule and the schedule laid down for payments,
4,Aid from the Fund shall be determined by the Commission:
a » in the aggregate for each request referred to in - paragraph 2 ; b , case by case , for reqiiests covered by paragraph 3.,
5.Member. States shall give priority to the presentation of requests for
contributions towards investments of ^ million units of account or more •
the responsible authority , , its contri¬
cost , its financing plan ,
The amount of the contribution from tho Fund defined , where applicable , "by calculating the aid equivalent pursuant to the implementing regulation referred to in Article 4(2)a., shall be paid pari passu with expenditure upon presentation "by the Ilernber State of quarterly statements certifying expenditure and the existence of detailed sup­ porting documents , and containing the following information :
for interim payment requests :
- the name of the the name of the
- the location of
- the total public expenditure incurred after the date referred
to in Article 11, and the part of the amount for which payment is requested,
- the amount of payment requested from the Fund,
- a forecast of future payment requests;
for final payment requests , all the information referred to under ( a ) except the last indent , and
the amounts of public expenditure .
the amount actually invested and a description of the investment concerned ,
the date of completion of the investment,
the number of .jobs created or maintained by . the investments referred to in Article 4(l)a«»
the investment , ,
concerned , or for infrastructures ,
Member States shall designate the authority or the institution authorised, to furnish the certification referred to in this Article. The Commission shall make payments to the Member State, to an agency designed by the Member SLate for this purpose / ......7.
Where an investment which has been the subject of a contribution from the Fund has not been made as planned, or if the conditions of this Regulation are not fulfilled , the contribution from the Fund may be reduced or can­
celled , if the Commission so decides after consulting the Fund Committee .
Any sums which have been paid in error shall be repaid to the Community by' the Member State concerned (_ . .J t within - 12 months following the date on which the relevant decision - has been communicated .
The Member State repays to the Commission the amount of the Fund's assistance that has been paid in relation to a national aid that has bean repaid by an investor.
Member States shall make available to the Commission all information required for the effective operation of the Fund and shall take all steps to facilitate such supervision as the Commission may consider
useful in managing the Fund , including on-the-spot checks .
Notwithstanding verification carried out by Member States in accordance with national laws , regulations and administrative . provisions , and without prejudice to the provisions of Article 206 of.. the Treaty or to any inspection arranged on the basis of Article 209 (c) of the Treaty, at the request of the Commission and with the agreement of the Member State, the competent authorities of that Member State shall carry out - on-the-spot checks or enquiries about operations financed by the Fund. Officials of the Commission may take part in these proceedings and the Commission may fix a time limit for carrying them out.
The objective of these on-the-spot checks or enquiries about operations financed-by the Fund shall be to verifys
(a) the conformity of administrative practices with Community rulesf
(b) the. .existence, of .supporting documentary evidence and its conformity with the operations financed by the Fund;
(c) conditions under which the operations financed by the Fund are ' • executed and checked3
(d) the conformity of projects implemented -with the operations financed by the Fund.
5. The Commission may suspend payment of aid to a particular project if an inspection reveals either irregularites , or a substantial change in the
character or conditions of the project for which the Commission's approval has not been sought.
6. Ii a project receiving aid from the Fund is not completed or is imple­ mented in such a manner as no longer to justify payment of part of the aid irorn the Fund granted on behalf of that project , the outstanding
■ part of the Fund's contribution shall be granted to another investment located in one of the eligible regions of the same Member State under the conditions laid down in this Regulation.
1. The investors concerned shall be informed by agreement with the Member States in question that part of the aid granted to them has been pro­
vided by the Community. For infrastructure projects , the Member States , by agreement with the Commission, shall take all necessary steps to ensure that assistance from the Fund is given suitable publicity.
2. The list of projects which have received contributions from the Fund -■shall be published every six months in the official Journal of the
Tne Commission shall take into consideration for Fund assistance the.
payments made £ J by the Member States after the date on which the request for assistance is received by the Commission.
The necessary measures to implement J the provisions of Articles 4-11 shall be decided according to the procedure provided for in Article 16 (Fund Committee).
1 . The Fund may participate in financing specific Community regional deve­ lopment measures which in whole or in part differ from the activities provided for in Title II and which concern in particulars
measures related to other Community policies or complementary thereto, destined to reinforce or to complement the convergent efforts of Community policies to correct structural imbalances in the regions, and particularly in the areas referred to in the Council Directive 75/268/EEC of 26 April 1975 on mountain and hill farming and farming in certain less-favoured areas
measures made necessary by the regional consequences of other Community policies :
measures designed to accelerate the creation of .jobs in the Community^ ■kss-developed regions or in reconversion regions by facilitating investors' access to capital markets and the location of foreign investments in these regions ; •
development measures tobe undertaken in frontier regions'
emergency measures intented to meet unforeseeable regional situations.
(a) the nature of the investments to which the Fund may contribute:; (b)the"areasandregions.inwhichthe. Fundmay•intervene?
Council shall, acting by a qualified ma.jority on a proposal from the
2. The
Commission after consulting the Buropean_ Parliament , determine as necessary, for each Community, regional development measure;
1) O.J. n L 123 of 19=5-1375-
(c) the national aids taken into consideration for ftrantinp; "the Fond s assistance'
(d) tlie Fund's participation
(G) the categories of beneficiaries for Fund assistance; (f) the financial rr.echanisms»
The Fund may "inance , in whole or in part , studies in close
with the activities provided for in Article 2 (i). These studies shall be undertaken on the Commission's initiative or at the request of one or more Member State*
2- The Fund's assistance is decided by the Commission according to the procedure provided for in Article 16 (Fund Committee) after consulting the Regional Policy Committee,
1. A Fund. Committee, (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee") is hereby established. It shall be composed of representatives of the llember States and chaired by a representative of the Commission.
2„ TJithin the Committee the votes of Member States shall be weighted, m accordance with Article 1AB (2) of the Treaty. The. Chairman shall not
'j JATTVI in ihif A"p"tic"^ g is "to "be ifoHoWG(1y "the Where the procedure laid down m thi ^ Arx _
Chairman shall refer the t. th. Committee either on his o»n initiative or at the request of the representative o<~ a llember State.
2. The representative of the Commission shall submit drafts of the decisions to be taken. ». Committee shall deliver its Opinion on the drafts within the time limit which the Chairman may i» aoeordmE to the urgency of the questions under consideration. An Opinion shall be
a majority of Al_.votes.
The Commission shall adopt decisions which shall apply immediately * However, if these decisions are not in accordance with the Opinion of the Committee, they shall forthwith "be communicated by the Commission to the Council, In that event the Commission shall defer application of
the decisions which it has adopted for not more than two months from
the date os such communications . The Council , acting by qualified majority , may take a different decision within two months ,
The Committee may consider any other question concerning the Fund's operations referred to it by its Chairman either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of the Member State .
^° The Member States shall adopt the measures required to indicate in a - distinct form , according to the special characteristics of their ■ ■ • relevant national systems , more part icularly of their national budgets aj.id._pf the budgets of_ public bodies , all monies received from the Fund .
2 o At_ the request o_r the Commission , Ilembcr States shall furnish information on the allocation of amounts received from the Fund; this shall be sufficient to conform the complementary character of the Fund.
The provisions of this Regulation shall not prejudice the application
of Articles J2 to 94 of the Treaty, particularly as regards establishing and re-aligning the areas aided for regional purposes.
 Be. ore 1 July each, year the Cor.imirsion ohall present a report to the European Parliament and to the Council cn the inplorientation of tlxis Regulation during the preceding jcar.
This report shall also cover the .'inaneial management of the Fund and
the conclusions drawn by the Commission from supervision to the Fund's operations ,
On a proposal from the Commission, the Council shall re-examine this
Regulation «J ac necessary every three years "rem the date on which it enters into force .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shal be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all I;ember States .
.^ojoosed Council Regulation (ESC) Ho of
establishing en_ interest rebate torn in_ the context of the European Regional Development Fund.
Loans to be granted by the European Communities or by the European Investment Bank may receive an interest rebate paid in the '~onte:ct of the European Regional Development Fund.
These interest rebates may be granted according to the rules laid do\m in this Regulation and up to an annual limit fixed in the general budget of the European Communities .-
Interest rebates may be granted on:
a) loans made to intermediary agencies for the purpose of allocating stib-loans to finance investments to be carried out by undertakings
with total employment of lees than 500 people, with net fixed assets employed of less than 30 million EUA and in whose capital structure larger enterprises , other than institutions responsible for contribu­ ting to regional development by promoting industrial projects , hold no more than a one–third participation
b) individual loans to enterprises other than those denned under (a) above >
The maximum interest rebate is fixed at 5 percentage points per year of initial capital value of the loan expressed in or converted to SUA on the basis of the rates published in the Oificial Journal of the European Communities for the first five years of the losn-
The interest rebate shall bo no more than 'Cfp of the rate of interest^
_ . . n-r the ilember State concerned. on the national long term capital ma
when the request is mau.Oo
The interest rebate shall not reduce the rate of interest pay-able by the investor fer the first five years of the loan to less than tailing account of possible interest rebates granted by the i.ember State concerned,
Thenaiimumindividualloanor, inthecaseofagloballoan, .he n&mm subsidiary lean eligible fer the interest rebate shall be no
«»50,000EDAperjcbcreatedormaintained, mthemeaningo,. Article oftheCouncilRegulationf.'.0724/750■ 21I-arcn1/75
Applications for xnterest rebates sha3.1 be .ado to the Cession by the borrowers either directly or by the intermediary ox the European Investment Bank where its own loans are concerned. The application
, „ ,, „ +h detailed rales and conditions
the loan, the ae.au. ^
-hall specify the amount o:>.
governing the grant of the loan and all details required to juooi,./ and fix the interest rebate.
Applications -for global loans shall be accompanied by a description of the intermediary borrower and its activities.
Applications shall be notified by the Commission to the Member State^ inwhichtheinvestmentiscarriedout, TheMemberStatesnailm. .
the Commission of its objections, if any, within 30 day­
The Commission takes its decision wrenm .0 days .ol-o.
of *tho Fond Conuni"t"toG^
GrailGing the interest rebatec is decided by the Commission subject to a decision to grant a loan by the responsible Community body in accor­
dance with the procedure laid down in Article IP. of Regulation (ESC) No T.'/Tj-
I) and Coinrn.it i. ee snail be consulted by way of written procedure .
Interest rebates may be granted on loans intended to finance investment conforming to the following conditionsz
8-c investments carried out in region;:; areas referred to in Article 3
01 Regulation (.3SC) No 72 /75» -for which regional development pro– / communicated
grammes have been/ to iho Commission pursuant to the provisions of Article 6(l) o. Regalation (ESC) ffo V-'JTj-
investments conforming to the criteria laid down in Article 4(l)a ) of Regulation (EEC) Ho 724/75*
The Commission shall decide to grant en interest rebate taking account of the provisions of Article 5 of Regulation (EEC) ITo 724/75,
The Commission indicates periodically tc the EIB the conditions and criteria; that it will take into account when granting interest rebates on EIB loans „
The amount of the interest rebate shall oe calculated and paid in EUA.
In the case of individual loans , the rebate shall be paid directly to
the borrower , at his request , when corresponding interest payments -"all due ,
Requests for payment shall be accompanied by information as to the amount and date o-r the corresponding interact payment and by confir­ mation that the loan is fully paid up to date .
 o In the case of global loans , the present value of the interest rebate shall be calculated in SUA, on the date of signature of the loan con­ tract , on the bacis of a rate of interest fixed at 1% of the rate of interest of the corresponding loan-
In the case of SIB loans the Commission chall decide the rules of pro­ cedure to this end in agreement with the European. Investment Ban1-:
. the
and shall adopi/required implementing regulation.
The total capitalized amount of the interest rebate shall be paid by the Commission to the . body. V-. issuing the loan on the date of signature of the loan contract.
If an open loan account is cloned, cither wholly or in part, or a loan issued is prepaid-, either wholly or in part , an amount corresponding to the part of the loan account closed or the proportion of the loan prepaid, with added interest capitalised at the same rate as that referred to in paragraph 1 aboveraentioned for the period from the date of payment of the total capitalised interest rebate and the date of repayment , shall be paid to the Commission .
Investments and loans , benefitting from interest rebates pursuant to this regulation are subject to the provisions of Article 9 of Regula­ tion (EEC ITo 724/75.
Tne Commission shall inform recipients of individual loans of the interest rebates they receive. Recipients of sub-loans from global
loans shall be informed in their contract with the intermediary borrower that the loan conditions are a, consequence of Community aid. and interest rebates from the European Regional Development Fund.
A list of the loans that have benefitted from interest rebates shall be
published every six months in the Official Journal of the European Communities .
Tlie Commission shall report to the Parliament and to the Council on the application of this regulation in the report provided for in Article
16 of Regulation (EEC) Wo 72/;/?5°
establishing an Exchange Risk Guarantee system in the context of the European Regional Development Fund.
A Community exchange Loss Guarantee system is created to cover part o*f the exchange losses incurred by borrowers of loans defined in Article 2 granted "by the European Communities or by the European Investment Bank and shall be governed by the conditions laid down in Article 4 of this Regulation .
Under this system guarantees may be given which are in conformity with the miles laid down in this Regulation and up to an annual limit for loans fixed in the general budget of the European Communities# ,
Guarantees may be granted for loans issued to intermediary agencies hereinafter referred to as global loans to be allocated to finance invest­ ments to be carried out by undertakings, with total employment of less than 500 people, with net fixed assets employed of less than 30 million EUA and in whose capital structure larger concerns, other than institu­ tions contributing to regional development by promoting industrial
more than a one-third participation j Article 3
losses guaranteed by the Community , calculated in EUA,
difference between :
a. the amount of repayment of principal and interest to be paid to
projects , hold no
1 . The exchange shall be the
the Commission or to the Bank calculated by applying to the
 respective currencies paid to the intermediary borrower at the conversion of those currencies and the EUA on the date when payment "by the "borrower falls due , as 'published in the Official Journal
of the European Communities and
b, the amount of the same payments calculated by applying to the currencies paid to the borrower the conversion rates of those currencies and the EUA at the dates when they viere disbursed to the borrower . '
2, The member states or the organisations that they designate shall cover at each repayment the difference between total exchange loss and that part of exchange loss covered by the Community, namely the portion of loss due to change in the conversion rate of the national currency in relation to the European unit of account .
3. The exbhange loss incurred by the Commission at each due payment shall be more than the total exchange loss incurred at the same payment .
Applications for guarantees shall be made to the Commission by the Member State concerned or by the responsible national agency.
1. Granting the guarantees is decided by the Commission subject to a decision to grant the loan by the responsible Community body in accor­ dance with the procedure laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EEC)
The Management Committee of the European Regional Development Fund shall be consulted by way of written procedure •
2, Guarantees may be granted on loans .intended to finance investments con­ forming to the following conditions:
a» investments carried out in regions or areas referred to in Article 3> first paragraph of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75, for which regional development programmes have been communicated to the Commission
pursuant to the provisions of Article 6, paragraph 1 of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75
b. investments conforming to the criteria laid d.own in Article 4t paragraphia of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75*
3.The Commission shall decide to grant a guarantee taking account of the provisions of Article 5 of Regulation (ESC) IT0 724/73-
The Commission shall decide case "by case and in agreement with the Member State concerned the rate of interest to be applied to sub-loans granted i/ithin the framework of the global loan in question*
This rate shall be decided, in 0particular in the light of the rate of interest on the national long term capital market and the margin to be
retained by the intermediary borrower to cover management costs and commercial risks .
The Commission shall pay to the Member State concerned or to the responsible agency the part of the exchange loss incurred byu the Community pursuant
Requests for payment shall be sent quarterly by the Member State to the Commission; they shall be accompanied by the necessary evidence .
Payments shall be expressed, in EUA. Article 8
Investments and loans benefitting from exchange risk guarantees granted pursuant to this Regulation are subject to the provi-ions of Article 9 of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75.
Tlie Commission shall inform intermediary borrowers and final beneficiaries of the exchange risk guarantees granted by the Community#
A list of the guarantees granted shall be published every six months in the Official Journal of the European Communities#
The Commission shall report to the Parliament and to the Council on . . the application of this Regulation in the report provided for in Article 19 of Regulation (SEC) N° 724/75 (amended)#
fiche financière
– investissements industriels
régions frontalières
régions frontalières
Engagement millions
prochaines années.
(article 4 paragraphe premier sous b)) 'ν
des régions frontalières ;
paragraphe 2 sous c),
Secretoriof general •' *
l' article 4 paragraphe 1 sous a ., le
gc-trcfforv.n Unt s che idunnon . Dr.s in
Communication from the Commission to the Council
Articles 2 and 18 of Council Regulation (EEC) No. .724/75 of 18 March 1975 establishing a European Regional Development Fund, requires that in 1977 the Commission should lay "before the Council proposals for the Community's regional policy and for the Fund. The purpose of the present communication from the Commission to the Council is to comply with this requirement.
I* The eoonomio and sooial "background (6-10) 3 II. Aims (11-14) 5 III. Means of Action (15-56) 7
Establishing a comprehensive system of
analysis and policy formulation (l>-20) 7 Regional impact assessment of
Community policies (21–24) 9 Co-ordination of national regional policies (25–31) 10
D. The Regional Policy Committee ( 32-35 )
Strengthening and diversifying financial instruments {36–52 )
a) the
The problems (38)
Location of the problems ( 39-42 )
"types of financial assistance (43-46 ) 16 Use of the appropriate financial
Proposed amendment to the Council decision No. 74/ 120 of the
18th February 1974 on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the member states of the EEC, as well asto
. the decision of the Council No. 75/l85 of 18th March 1975 setting up a Regional Policy Committee.
Proposal for a Regulation of the Council amending the regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 of the Council of 18th March 1975 creating the European Regional Development Fund.
III. Proposal for a regulation of the Council establishing an interest rebate system within the European Regional Development Fund.
IV. Proposal for a regulation of the Council establishing an exchange risk guarantee system within the European Regional Development Fund.
1, The time has come for the Community to define clearly an overall
approach to Community regional policy for the coining years and to specify in detail the measures to "be adopted within the framework of the policy. This entails certain changes to existing regional policy instruments : the Regional Policy Committee and the European Regional Development Fund.
The need to define regional policy is laid down in Council Regulation No. 724/75 has been stressed by the European Parliament in its
Resolution on aspects of Community regional policy to be developed in the future, by the Economic and Social Committee and by the social partners.
In this context, the Commission proposes the development of specific Comm– •unity actions." As well as general support for the regional policies of the Member States – designed mainly to remedy existing regional problems –
Community actions will aim to help solve the new problems resulting from the economic and social situation the Community faces at the present time.
2. The economic and social context within which Community regional policy falls has changed fundamentally since the early seventies, when the first measures of Community regional policy were conceived. New problems of adaptation and redevelopment have been added to continuing regional
The first part of this paper is concerned with the analysis of this new economic and social context, since it is the decisive factor in determi­
ning the substance of Community regional policy.
 The aims of Community regional policy are dealt with in the second, part of the paper. These aims reflect the major problems mentioned above : the reduction of continuing regional problems and the prevention of new regional problems arising from the change in the structure of the world economy or from policies initiated by the Community.
The means the Community requires to meet these aims are the subject of the third part of the paper. These include the development of new methods of analysing problems and preparing decisions , changes in
existing instruments and the creation of new ones.
Finally, the Commission takes the view that Community regional policy should be comprehensive. This means that it must be conceived and worked out with the whole territory of the Community in mind.
Particular attention should be paid to a policy for regional aids as a way of ensuring the right conditions for the proper working of the Common Market. Community regional policy should aim at giving a geographical dimension to all other Community policies from their inception. Through the co-ordination of Community financial instruments it should help achieve coherence between all structural measures.
6. Community decisions on regional policy adopted in 1975^ were essent­
iallythereflectionoftwofacts. First,theprogressiveestablishment of the common market had not achieved the positive results expected in terms of a "better distribution of economic activity throughout Community territory. Onthecontrary,theprosperityofthericherregionsin­ creased while regions with less advanced economies encountered increas­ ingdifficultyinintegratingthemselvesintothegrowingmarket. This was largely a consequence of the way in which the Treaty was conceived and implemented, with the emphasis mainly on the abolition of "barriers totrade. ThesustainedgrowthoftheCommunityeconomyoverthis period clearly had positive results, even in the less favoured regions, "but it contributed equally to hiding the persistent imbalances which had
existed before the establishment of the common market.
In view of this, it seemed indispensable to give the Community the tools for its own regional policy, since the Community alone was able to assess the real extent of the problems and, by adding its effort to that of the Member States, to contribute to solving the most serious ones.
7* These preoccupations remain valid. One can now state some years later that, despite inoreased efforts by the Member States and the Community to speed up the development of the least favoured regions, the situation has not changed fundamentally and imbalances between regions remain excessive .
8. Economic and social trends in recent years have make the situation even more complicated and worrying. Since 1973 the effects of the economic crisis and the increased cost of raw materials have led to a slower
growth rate and less inclination to invest.
(l) Council regulations and decisions of 18 March 1975» OJ No. L 73 of 21 March 1975
In an economy whose growth rate has so declined, the development of the weaker regions is seriously affected, and the persistence of regional imbalances even threatens the proper functioning of the common market
itself . Indeed , not only do the less developed regions fail to integrate fully within the Community, "but the problems to which they give rise "become an increasingly heavy burden on national economies and thus increase the pressure on the public authorities concerned to refuse the constraints inherent in the mechanism of Community integration. It is moreover an illusion to hope for the convergence of Member States*
economies so long as regional problems continue to weight so heavily on certain economies .
Furthermore, the new international division of labour now gradually emerging is imposing major structural changes on the Community economy, so creating new sources of regional imbalance.
9# In the light of this situation, Community regional policy must become more ambitious than in the past.' Even in a period of sustained growth, the assistance given to the least favoured regions did not make a
sufficient contribution to the reduction of regional differences. As well as an increased effort to improve the working of the Common Market, a comprehensive policy of structural change is necessary. This should help both the regions that were insufficiently developed even before the creation of the Common Market and regions either experiencing or vulnerable to the difficulties of restructuring and redevelopment.
10. It follows from this situation that Community regional policy must be . strengthened and its field of application expanded. This is not only desirable : it is now one of the conditions of continuing European economic integration.
11. Community regional policy has two main aims; firstly to reduce existing regional problems which appear "both in regions traditionally less developed and in those involved in a process of industrial or agri­ cultural reconversion; secondly to prevent new regional imbalances arising from the change in world economic structures or from measures adopted "by the Community within the framework of its own policies.
The achievement of these aims implies a close co-operation "between the Community and each Member State and the realisation of a variety of tasks .
12. The tasks involve firstly the permanent analysis and assessment of trends in regional economies throughout the whole Community territory, principally, though not only, in the field of employment, to assess the range and nature of the regional imbalances affecting the integration processatCommunitylevel. SecondlytheyrequirethatCommunity policies and financial instruments, structural and other, are used in a coherent and convergent way, if their consequences may, at one time or another,havearegionalimpact. Thirdlytheremustbeco-ordination
of the regional policies of Member States, both mutually and in relation to Community aims. Fourthly and finally,there is the question of a policy on financial assistance (Regional Fund); on the one hand, this takes
the form of support for national regional policies, and on the other it • must be a catalyst in working out and applying specific development and reconversion measures at Community level.
13. These aims and their achievement fall within the framework of an active employmentpolicy. InthepresenteconomicsituationoftheCommunity, the creation of new jobs in regions where structural unemployment is greatest must be a priority task. On the basis of studies of regional employment balances and the regional development programme ,the Community should make for each region quantified forecasts of employment for a set
period, taking particular account of the employment situation in agri­ culture.
Since the adjustments required for the "balanced development of economic activities in the Community cannot "be achieved by large scale migratory movements, "better distribution of the factors of production within the Community must "be achieved "by creating new jobs in regions of structural under–employment and alternative jobs in regions affected by the need
to renew and convert their economic structures.
14. Its comprehensive approach now places Community regional
policy in the perspective of Community land use planning. In implement­ ing the policy, the Commission will, particularly by means of the regional development programmes, make an effort to promote a rational use of space, a balanced distribution of activities over the whole Community territory and effective protection of the environment and living conditions : as early as November 1973» the Community acknow­ ledged that balanced economio development throughout the whole
Community was inconceivable without an effective campaign against pollution and nuisances (l).
(l) Programme of Environmental Action of the European Communities, 22nd November 1973 (OJ C 112 of 20.12.73).
A# Establishing a comprehensive system of analysis and policy formulation
15- A comprehensive approach to regional policy involves strengthening the system of analysis and assessment of the regional economies of the Community as a whole and of their respective development.
This analysis should include all regions and he as exhaustive as poss­ ible* Indeed, a detailed knowledge of the development of all regions, including the relatively prosperous regions which supply a large part of the resources required, will assist in diagnosing and remedying regional problems .
16. With this intention, the tasks to be undertaken are :
– to analyse regional trends and, in particular, to consider how regional disparities have developed;
– to pinpoint regions facing or .likely to face problems of Community size ;
– to work out a joint method for assessing the results of national and Community regional policies;
– to provide the statistical and methodological basis needed to assess the regional effects of Community policies.
17. A special effort to improve statistics beyond what is currently available is needed in this respect, both by Member States and by the Community. This statistical tool includes a number of key regional indicators to be worked out on a Community basis, such as activity rates, employment by sector , unemployment , employment shortfalls forecasts , net migration , GDP and income per head of population and per employed person,
fiscal capacity and effort, and data on the level of provision and needs for infrastructure. The forecasting of regional employment balances is of special importance here to indicate those regions needing Community help. The examination and assessment of the situation in each region should be undertaken within the framework of a comprehensive analysis of the Community^ economic situation and of the general economic policy measures which it requires.
 18. On the "basis of this work as a whole, the Commission will present to the Counoil a draft report on the sooial and economio development of the regions of the Community every two years , starting in 1979 * This report
is intended to indicate the principal regional problems at the Community level, to assess the results achieved by the joint actions of the Member States and the Community against these problems and show the conditions for an effective co-ordination of the regional policies of the Member States. These regional problems being a Community responsib­ ility, it is desirable that it should be discussed by the Council at regular intervals.
The Council, after consulting the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee, would approve-the report and fix the priority objectives of regional development to pursue at Community level and, following from that, guidelines for national and Community regional policies .
19. The procedure for examining the- report should follow that provided for in Article 4 of the Council decision of 18 February 1974 on the attain­ ment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of Member States of the EEC. To this end, the draft report will be accompanied
by opinions of the Economic Policy and the Regional Policy Committees so as to guarantee consistency between economic and regional policy
20. This analytical and conceptual work should be extended to cover also the effectiveness of the means and instruments used so as to build up a coherent system for assessing results. This is a complicated problem which can only be solved by stages, and by taking account of the findings of studies undertaken and experience gained within the Community.
To this end, the Regional Policy Committee will continue to study these problems concentrating on the effectiveness of disincentive measures, the evaluation of direct regional aids and on preparing a method for assessing results . This work should be completed and available before .the end of 1979 so that the Commission and the Council, when considering the two- yearly report on regional "trends in the Community, can establish guide­ lines for regional policy.
(l ) Draft modified decisions attached in Annex I.
C. Co-ordinati ori of national reprional poli ci es
25. The two-yearly report on Community regional development, and the aims and guidelines fixed "by the Council,will form the "basis for periodical comparison of regional problems in the different Member States and of national regional policies.
26. This comparison, which is also the first stage of a coordination process, must cover national regional policies and take account of the various structural measures with a regional impact, infrastructure projects with direct or indirect regional consequences and financial transfers "between regions within a State. It must take account of such systems of regional aid that the Commission considers called for under Article $2 of the EEC Treaty. This coordination, to "be achieved gradually "but with increasing convergence, must in due course allow an improved regional allocation
of resources.
27• In this connection, regional development programmes are a particularly important instrument^^ : they should specify the requirements, aims and
priorities of each region and the means necessary and available to
achieve them. Their examination at Community level will make it possible to take into account the guidelines and priority aims set "by the Council, after considering the two–yearly report , and the other Community policies .
It is clear that coordination can "be completely fruitful only to the extent thatthe guidelines and aims have themselves "been laid down with some precision . In so far as these programmes concern frontier regions , co-ordinating infrastructure projects will "be a priority task.
Member States will specify the use of resources received from the Regional Fund, but it is at the level of these programmes that the complementary nature of Community action and that of the Member States will be ensured, thus guaranteeing a speeding up of the overall regional development effort.
(l) Under Article 6 of the present ERDF Regulation, development pro­ grammes for regions the Fund assists must be notified to the Commission by the end of 1977*
 28. Studies are at present in progress on the scope for coordinating dis­ incentive measures. The Regional Policy Committee has been asked to report on this subject to the Commission and the Council "by the end of 1979 .
Such measures are already m force in some Member States . However , to be effective both at national and Community level, the limitation
sought on economic concentration must be accompanied by expansion in the development and reconversion regions. This cannot happen so long as a firm prevented from investing in one Community region has no difficulty in investing in another similarly congested region of the Community where disincentive measures are not applied.
30. Disincentive measures co-ordinated at Community level will, especially in a later period of rising investment, be able to make an effective contribution to a new distribution of human activity throughout the Community in the perspective of European land use planning.
31. Moreover, the Commission, under the powers it holds pursuant to Articles 92 and those following of the EEC Treaty is at present reviewing the system for coordinating regional aids which it had established in 1975* In assessing these aids, the Commission will see that a balance is ensured between regional development considerations and the need to maintain competition. In so doing, it will contribute to the harmonious development of economic activities throughout the Community.
D. The Regional Policy Committee
32. The various measures presented in this communication should, when applied, confirm and strengthen the role of the Regional Policy Committee.
Consultation of the Committee on the draft two-yearly report prepared "by the Commission, before its presentation to the Council, under the pro­ cedures mentioned above, will highlight one of the tasks
conferred to it by its mandate, to study the development of the economio and social situation in the different regions of the Community.
33. The Regional Policy Committee will be informed of the conclusions of the main reports analysing the regional impact of Community policies : this will enable it to make a more detailed study of the implications of the
34* The conclusions to be drawn by the Committee from its examination of disincentive measures, of the evolution of direct regional aids and the development of a method for assessing results will contribute directly to the elaboration of measures to be adopted in these various fields.
35* Lastly, the Commission shares the wish recorded by the European Parlia^- ment in its resolution of 21 April 1977 "to see the regions concerned and _ their representatives associated with the preparation of Community regionalpolicy. Theyarealreadyinvolvedinitsimplementationatthe level of the realisation of investments. The Council Decision setting up the Regional Policy Committee^ and its rules of procedure also provides expressly for this possibility^^.
(l) OJ No. 73 of 21 March 1975
(2) OJ No. L 320 of 11 December 1975
(3) Article 5 of the Decision provides that the Committee may, in acc­ ordance with its rules of procedure, take cognisance of the views of interested parties from the regions and from trade union and business organisations. Article5(2)oftheRulesofProcedurestates"Vfhen items on the agenda are of concern to particular regions, the Committee, if members appointed by the Member State concerned think it useful to do so, may take evidence, either orally or in writing, from institutional
representatives or from other interested parties from the regions concerned".
.P"t ren Prthening and. diversi fying the financial instruments of Community regional -policy
The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF^
By deploying the resources mentioned above, the Commission will "be able to exert a substantial influence on the development of the regions in
the Community# Among these instruments the ERDF has a special place.
The proposals of the Commission in this respect, as enclosed in Annex XX, show the Commission's desire to make these instruments of regional policy more efficient and more relevant. In the view of the Commission, Fund assistance should "be available both to support the regional development measures of the Member States and for specific actions in order to take account of the regional effects of existing and future Community policies. This dual role would involve dividing ERDF resources into
two sections : a quota section – the larger one – to which national
quotas would apply , would be intended to finance general support measures , and a non-quota section to finance specific actions.
Through its support of the regional development measures of Member States, the ERDF is intended to ensure that resources are transferred to the
Community^ priority regions, in order to speed up their development and reconversion by helping to finance priority projects or groups of projects within regional development programmes.
In the specific actions, the Community will be expressing its own res­ ponsibility for correcting regional imbalances. These actions are primarily regional policy measures intended to supplement or to strengtl>-
en the application of other Community policies ,or to correct any adverse regional effects they may have. The geographical scope of these actions depends on the location of the industries at which Community policies are directed and the relative intensity of regional problems. Consequently there are no grounds for an a priori distribution between Member States of ERDF resources available for this purpose.
 (i) The problems
■B. These two types of action by the EEDF - general support and specific -
are intended to cope with four types of regional problems at present facing the Community :
- the underdevelopment of a number of regions, which, despite sus­ tained efforts, still lag well behind and which will require massive Community aid for a long time to come;
- the industrial or agricultural changes, which have appeared in the
last quarter of a century in numerous regions of the Community, require measures of development and reconversion to which the Comm­
unity must contribute, but certainly for a shorter time and in a less intensive way;
the current or expected problems caused • in some regions by the change in world economic structures or by existing or future Community policies and calling for a Community contribution each
time the effects reach a certain scale;
- the special problems of frontier regions,
(ii) Location of the problems
. The first type of problem concerns the Mezzogiorno, Ireland, Northern
Ireland, Greenland and the French overseas departments. Taken together, these regions have 26 million inhabitants and to date have received
of ERJF assistance. These are the regions of the Community lagging furthest behind; geographically they are located on the Community's periphery, which is an additional obstacle to their integration. Community assistance is the more justified since, in some cases, the
Member States concerned do not have the financial capacity to solve this problem from their own resources.
The task of the Community is long term in this first category of region and consists mainly in accelerating their development, to give the region
an economic base, both in the form of infrastructure and of a product­ ive system whioh will enable them to become more competitive and to integrate into the Community. Moreover, as the European Parliament
has stressed, the Community ought to "be in a position to assist those regions in the provision of social infrastructure, education and vocat­ ional training, in so far as these contribute directly to regional dev*- elopment, since the high cost and lack of immediate return is a heavy charge on the Member States concerned.
40. The second type of problem concerns regions, which have experienced
development and conversion problems for many years due to structural
changes in "both the industrial and agricultural sectors, and where the
problems , "because of serious under–employment , are so substantial that
they affect the proper functioning of the Community. In this case the
Community contribution is to support and intensify development efforts
in agricultural regions and the adaptations needed in industrial regions, particularly by influencing the flovr of investment.
These regions , and those described in the preceding paragraph , correspond largely to the priority regions and areas eligible for Fund assistance tinder the present regulation.
41. The third type of problem is found in regions whose problems are intensi­ fied by the changes in world economic structures or by the implementat­ ion of certain Community policies. The actual or estimated regional impact of these changes or policies can be assessed particularly by
means of the HIAs. The Community must act in those regions – provided the Member State concerned does likewise – through Community regional policy, either by supplementary measures to facilitate the application of these policies, or by measures to correct any adverse effects when­
ever the consequences are such as to affect the proper functioning of the Community.
42. The fourth type of problem is located in Community frontier regions; they generally feel the effects of integration most acutely and so problems of development or conversion often arise.
(iii) Ttypes of financial assistance
43. The seriousness of underdevelopment in regions facing the first type of problem requires prolonged financial assistance from the Community. The resources available here would fall within the quota section of the ERIF. In each country concerned these regions should receive annually from this source, a contribution at least equal, in real value, to the
contribution reserved for it in the previous year.
44. The same guarantee should apply to the regions facing the second type of problem, it being understood that the situation of those regions will be the subject of periodical examination within the framework of the two- yearly report (cf. 18). If it should appear that the problems of one of these regions are no longer on such a scale as to affect the proper functioning of the Community, and in particular that the region no longer has a grave shortage of employment, it will no longer receive a guarantee
of EEDP assistance. It may, if the need arises, receive an ERDF contri– . bution under its specific actions .
45* EEDF assistance directly linked to the changes in world economic struct– , ures or to the application of certain existing or future Community
policies would come from the non-quota section. An a priori dis­ tribution of the resources available between Member States is excluded
as all regions of the Community may be affected by these problems. Indeed, the nature, location and size of this type of regional problem
depends on the policy concerned, on the type of measure envisaged and on the general economic situation at the time the policy is applied. As
Community policies gradually develop,these specific actions will become a more and more important part of all the ERDP's actions.
46. As for the frontier regions, there is also no reason to provide for an a priori distribution of Fund resources since, in view of the nature of the problems, there are no grounds for such a system. Assistance from the Fund, therefore, would come from the non-quota section.
(iv) Use of the appropriate financial instruments
47* To ensure that it has the maximum impact, the ERDF will, however, have to conoentrate its efforts on the most aoute. regional problems; to this end, priorities will have to "be determined progressively at the level of each region in a precise way, following in particular the analysis and assess­ ment of the social and economic situation of the regions.
At the same time, the Fund should tailor the assistance it provides to the nature and gravity of the problems to he solved. Thus Community ass­ istance for regional development purposes will take the form of grants, or loans and guarantees, or, if necessary, an appropriate combination of these. To this end, provision has been made for introducing within the ERDF schemes for interest rebates on Community loans (EIB, ECSC, EEC) and for guaranteeing exchange losses. Moreover, the Commission is exam­ ining the possibility of a system of acquiring shares in regional development corporations. These new instruments will mainly concern small and medium-sized undertakings.
In addition, the rate of Community participation will vary, the highest rates being reserved for the regions lagging furthest behind. On-lent loans will be available in all the regions eligible for ERDF assistance but the interest rate rebate will vary with the type of problem to be solved.
48. ERDF assistance is for both investment in infrastructure which can" con– . tribute to regional economic development and to improving the quality of life of the population concerned and investments which are directly productive , both in the manufacturing and service sectors . For the
services sector, it is planned to calculate ERDF assistance on the basis not only of investment expenditure but equally of jobs created. Event­ ually the right balance should be found between aid for infrastructure investment and aid for investment that creates jobs directly.
In order to play an effective role in solving the different types of regional problem, the Community will finance priority projects or groups of projects which contribute most to development or reconversion; these priorities will be set by' region on the basis of regional development programmes and in the light of Community aims and rules.
49* Two distinct categories of region correspond to the first two types of
problemmentionedabove* Thethirdandfourthtypesofproblemmay
occur outside these two categories of region, but in most cases will be located inside them.
Consequently, oneandthesameareamaybefacedwitheitheranunder­ developmentorareconversionproblem, andoneachofthesemaybe
superimposed problems arising from changes in the structure of the world economy, the application of Community policies and the area's frontier
situation. ToeachoftheseproblemsthereisacorrespondingERDF action -supportorspecificmeasures-whichbytheircombinedeffects
will help to solve the different types of problems facing the area. Therefore, certainregionsorareasoftheCommunitywillqualifyfor
ERE?assistancefromboththequotaandthenon-quotasections. Insuch
cases the principles governing coordination of regional aids must be complied with.
50. The basis for using the resources of the non–quota section of the ERDF willbethegravity, scaleandurgencyoftheregionalproblemswhich
threaten to appear or worsen, as the structure of the world economy changesorCommunitypoliciesareapplied. Accountwillalsobetaken
of the financial capacity of the Member States on whose territory these problemsoccur. TheuseofallERDFresources-quotaandnon-quota
sections - must be directed towards the harmonious development of econom-' ic activities in the Community.
Because of their financial implications,these proposals could give rise to a consultation between the European Parliament and the Council with theassistanceoftheCommission, followingtheprocedureprovidedforin the "Common Declaration" of these three institutions of 4th March 1975.
b) Loans for regional development
51. The scale and diversity of regional problems facing the Community and Member States will require considerable financial resources for several years. In view of the Community^ budgetary limitations a substantial increase in resources for Community regional policy, in proportion to its objectives, seems unlikely. The Community must therefore, in particular as concerns regional policy, develop a financial programme based on both its fiscal • effort and its capacity to make loans,over and above the current facilities of the European Investment Bank and the
Coal and Steel Community. The Commission will make appropriate proposals to the Council.
52. Community loans for regional development should form an integral part of Community regional policy resources and should therefore be adapted to the aims of that policy. Community regional development finance must therefore be programmed taking account of regional requirements and the
• relative advantages of budget financing and loan financing. The financial programming of Community regional measures will be based on regional
development programmes and the information they provide on the financial resources which the Member State intends to allocate to them.
53* Apart from the regional information campaign, particularly on the ERDF, already undertaken within the framework of Commission information policy and aimed principally at the general public, there should "be a special
effort directed towards potential investors and those responsible for regional development.
54. The Commission, in order to demonstrate at Community level the important role which regional policy can play in the economic recovery, intends to arrange in the summer of 1978 a. "Conference on Community regional dev­ elopment : investment and jobs". Representatives of trade unions and employers organisations in the Member States and potential investors will be invited.
55. In addition, the outcome of Community regional studies will be public- ised more systematically. Moreover, regional studies jointly financed
by the Commission and Member States can provide technical assistance for the regions. In particular they are relevant to the preparation of regional development programmes and the co-ordinated use of the financial instruments of the Community and the Member States.
56. For the benefit of potential investors and those responsible for regional development,the Commission will prepare a publication setting out,, acc­ ording to an agreed outline, the aid systems and other benefits avail­ able in the different member countries. The Commission will spell out the priorities of Community regional policy and will indicate regions
eligible for Community aid. This publication will be brought up to date periodically .
57* Community regional policy is a permanent task. Therefore
it is a process of change, which implies continual redefinition of its
aims and stages, both in the Member States and at Community level. The
guidelines elaborated in this communication should govern activity in the coming years.
These governing principles concern a wide range of regional problems which in different ways affect the whole of the Community's "territory.
Their main purpose is to reduce existing regional inequalities and to anticipate the emergence of new problems linked to the changing structure of the Community's economy.
58. The changes forecast within the Community call for the introduction of a development strategy which will introduce into all Community policies thespatialdimensionoftheproblemstobesolved. Regionalpolicywill
• contribute in this way to ensuring consistency of policies and measures acrossthewholerangeofCommunityeconomicactivity. Tocarryoutits
responsibilities with respect to the past and the future,the Community must equip itself with adequate tools of analysis and assessment and means of action which are suited to the nature and extent of the regional problemstobesolved. Theseresponsibilitieswillleadtoastrength­ ening of regional policies in each Member State, greater co-ordination of these, and the development of the Community's own activities.
59* The size of this task requires a body able to identify regional problems in all their aspects and to indicate the guidelines for co-ordinated jointactionbytheMemberStatesandtheCommunity. Thecreationofa "Standing Committee on Regional £>iructure"comparable in form and compos­ ition to the "Standing Committee on Employment" and bringing together the two sides of industry and representatives of regional and local authorities,would allow regular comparison of the choices before the Community and the Member States.
60. The financial resources of Community regional policy must therefore "be coordinated so as to support "both national efforts and the Community^ own activity. This double requirement implies the development of fin­ ancial resources, in particular by a suitable policy on loans, and the specification in the budget of whether resources are used as support for national efforts or for the Community^ own measures.
61. The Community will be confronted in the near future by the problems of enlargement. An overall examination of the situation must be made in order to assess the nature and extent of these problems. In this regional policy , among others , should be given its proper weight . Community regional policy as defined in this paper should enable all
the countries concerned to work out the solutions needed. In this
• respect, the drawing up of general guidelines for the Community in the
field of regional policy is an essential step in preparing the Community of tomorrow.
 PROPOSED AtffiNTMENTS to "the COUNCIL DECISION (74/120/EEC) (l) of 18 February 1974
on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the Member States of the European Economic Community
Insert an Article 4(ii) of which this is the text : Article 4 (ii)
"Every two years, and for the first time in 1979» on the occasion of the third examination defined in Article 4 above, the Council shall adopt, on
the "basis of a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the Assembly and the Economic and Social Committee, a two-yearly report on the social and economic situation and trends in the regions of the Community, and shall fix the guidelines to be followed by each Member State and by the Community in their regional policies over the two following years".
COUNCIL DECISION (75/I85/EEC) (2) of 18 March 1975
setting up a Regional Policy Committee
Add to Article 2 a paragraph 3 the text of which is this :
3# "Every two years the Committee shall formulate an opinion on the prelim­ inary draft, prepared by the Commission, of the report on the social and economic situation and trends in the regions of the Community, which opinion will be annexed to the draft report which the Commission will sub­ mit to the Council within the framework of the procedure provided for in the Council decision of 18 February 1974 on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the Member States of the
1) OJ No. L 63 of 5th March 1974 2) OJ No. L 73 of 21st March 1975
 AJCTEXES II . Ill and IV to GUIDELINES FOR C0K1UOTTY REGIONAL POLICY
AETREX II a proposal for a regulation (EEC) N°... of the Council amending the regulation (EEC) 11° 724/75 of the Council of
18th March 1975 establishing a European Regional Development Fund ,
This proposal contains :
- an explanatory statement
- the formal text of -the proposed regulation
- a working document setting out the proposed amendments
in relation to the initial text .
A3TOEX III a proposal for a regulation (EEC) N° ••• of the Council of ••• establishing an interest rebate system within the European Regional Development Fund..
This proposal contains :
- an explanatory statement
- the formal text of the proposed regulation.
AMNEXB IV a proposal for a regulation (EEC) ... of the Council of ... establishing an exchange loss guarantee system within the
European Regional Development Fund. This proposal contains :
- an explanatory statement
- the formal text of the proposed regulation.
PROPOSAL FOR A REGULATION ( EEC ) No of the COUNCIL of
(EEC) No. 724/75 of the COUNCIL of 18 MARCH 1975 CREATING THE EUROPEAN REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
The European Regional Development Fund, hereinafter referred to as
"the Fund", was established by Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 of the Council of 18 March 1975 . Article 18 of that Regulation provides
for its review by the Council, on a proposal from the Commission, before 1 January 1978 .
Accordingly, The Commission is submitting to the Council a proposal
for amendments to the Fund Regulation which, on the bais of the experi­ ence gained in the last two years, are designed to enable this finan­ cial instrument to be adapted to the new requirements of the Community regional policy defined in the "Guidelines for Community Regional Policy" contained in the Commission Communication to the Council.
The main proposed amendments concern the differentiation of the kinds of assistance provided by the Fund, the rules governing this assis­
tance and the procedural rules. They concern the following Articles of the regulation :
- the definition of two main Classes of measure eligible for Fund assistance, namely Community measures to support regional policy measures adopted by the Member States, and specific Community regional development measures (Article 2);
- procedure for fixing the appropriations to the Fund (Article 2);
- the definition of types of infrastructure eligible for Fund assistance (Article 4);
- the flexibility of rates of contribution from the Fund in respect of infrastructure investment (Article 4);
- the simplification of procedures for granting contributions from the Fund for small projects (Article 5);
~ the adaptation of procedures relating to regional development programmes, annual information and statistical summaries (Article 6)
- accelerated payments . from the Fund (Article 8);
- the adoption of new rules concerning the timing of payments
qualifying for Fund support (Article 11); ./. OJ No. L 93 of 21.3.1975
 . - the definition of the framework of new specific Community regional development measures (Article 13);
- new arrangements for financing studies (Article 13);
- the detailed rules governing the principle of complementarity (Article 18).
Definition of the two main types of measure qualifying for Fund support (Article 2)
In accordance with the guidelines set out in Chapter III, E (points 37 et seq ) of the Commission 's Communication to the Council , the Fund will now provide support :
- firstly, for measures supporting regional policy measures adopted by the Member States. This section is subject to a distribution of appropriations on the basis of pre-established national quotas;
- secondly, to assist specific regional development measures under a section not involving national quotas .
This distinction is introduced by Article 2; the two classes of measure are covered by Titles II and III respectively of the Regula­ tion .
Procedure for fixing the appropriations to the Fund (Article 2)
The amount of the appropriations to the Fund for the period 1975/77 is fixed by Article 2(1) at 1,300 million EUA.
From 1978 onwards, the normal budgetary procedure will apply to fixing of the appropriations to the Fund, i.e. that the annual appropriations for the Fund should be fixed each year when the general budget of the European Communities is adopted.
In this connection, it should be recalled that in 1975 Parliament and the Council agreed that Fund expenditure after 1977 would rank as non- obligatory .
 imtion of the nature of infrastructure eligible ^ unci assis tance (Article 4(1)(b)
Article 4(1)(b) of the Fund Regulation stipulates that only infrastruc­ ture investments directly linked with the development of industrial/ artisan or service activities qualify for Fund support. An interpre­ tative declaration recorded in the minutes of the meeting of the Council of 18 March 1975 adds, however, that, exceptionally, the Fund may also take part in the financing of infrastructure which constitutes a prerequisite for action to develop such activities.
Experience gained during the first two years of operation of the Fund has shown, firstly, that the concepts of infrastructure "directly linked" or "constituting a prerequisite" were not always easy to define, involving possible differences of interpretation between the Commission and the Member States, and, secondly, that the basic infrastructure equipment needs of the various regions of the Community were not compa­ rable and varied widely from one region to another.
Accordingly, the Commission is proposing, to enable the Fund's support to be tailored more closely to the varying needs of the regions, that more flexibility should be introduced into the definition of eligible infrastructure . For this purpose , it is suggested that the concept of infrastructure "directly linked" to the development of productive activities should be replaced by that of infrastructure "which contri­ butes to the development of the region in which it is located".
The regional development programmes can be referred to in order to assess , for each region , which are these types of infrastructure .
Flexibility of rates of contribution from the Fund in respect of infrastructure investment (Article 4(2)(b )
Fund participation in the financing of infrastructure investment is fixed by Article 4(2)(b) of the Fund Regulation at 30% for projects costing less than 10 million EUA, and between 10 and 30% for projects costing more than 10 million EUA.
These rates may be varied downwards but not exceeded. Thus it is
difficult under present arrangements, to make Community support measures really selective and ensure that they constitute proper .
incentives to infrastructure investment which is particularly necessary ■for the economic development of certain regions, and the execution of which is liable to be hampered or delayed by shortage of funds.
9. Accordingly, the Commission is proposing that it should be stipulated, in the Regulation, that the rate of Fund participation in the financing of infrastructure projects of special relevance to the development of . the region in which they are located may be as much as 50%. This facility would be confined to Greenland, the overseas French depart­ ments, Ireland, the Mezzogiorno and Northern Ireland, these being the Community regions having the most serious structural difficulties to contend with .
Simplification of the procedures for granting Fund assistance for small projects (Article 5(2)
10. The present arrangements stipulate that the contributions form the Fund must be approved by the Commission on the basis of a set of criteria enabling the Commission to assess the relevance of the projects to be financed to the development of the region in which they are located, after the Fund Committee has been consulted.
Projects costing less than 10 million EUA are covered by global deci­ sions and projects costing more than 10 million EUA are the subject of individual decisions .
11. Experience gained during the first two years of operation of the Fund has led to the following conclusions :
- hardly any of the small projects, whether industrial or infrastruc­ ture projects, have raised any particular difficulties for the Fund Committee ;
- the 10 million EUA threshold above which projects may be the subject of detailed examination is too high for certain regions which do not have the potential to justify the location or the execution of very
- the preparation of draft decisions to go to the Committee (488 deci­ sions in two years concerning 2 728 projects) involves a heavy
administrative burden which the Commission has had great difficulty in di scharging . " •/•
The Commission takes the view , in these circumstances / that there is a case for simplifying procedures for granting Fund assistance, which
would facilitate the work of both the national departments and its own staff, while enabling at the same time the usefulness of the projects financed by the Fund to be assessed more accurately.
For this purpose it is proposing :
- that the threshold beyond which projects are examined and are the ι
subject of a case-by-case decision should be lowered from 10 million EUA to 5 mi llion EUA;
- that only draft decisions relating to investments of more than 5 million EUA should go to the Fund Committee for an opinion;
- that only follow-up information should go to the Fund Committee on decisions for assistance relating to investments of less than 5 million EUA. However, the Committee would still have to be consul­ ted in respect of drafts proposing negative decisions, whenever the Member State concerned so requested, and for any draft decision
in respect of which the Commission feels that a Committee opinion would be useful .
Using this procedure would have cut from 488 to about 200 the number of
draft decisions laid before the Fund Committee in 1975 and 1976.
, Adaptation of procedures relating to regional development programmes, annual information, and statistical summaries (Article 6)
13. The amendments to the Fund Regulation proposed by the Commission are designed to :
(a) adapt the text of Article 6 to the fact that the Commission will normally dispose of the programmes by the end of 1977;
enable the Commission to be informed , early in the year , of the priorities selected by the Member States in respect of the imple­ mentation of the programmes, and more specifically of their budgetary commitments. This is necessitated by the fact that the programmes generally concern periods varying between three and five years, and not all the Member States update the multi-year programmes annually. The annual information requirement is there­
fore retained, but its content is adapted to this specific up­ dating function; '
proposing that , in certain circumstances , a
( c ) give the text concerning the statistical summaries a more specific content, and to postpone the date of 1 April to 30 June, since
certain Member States have had difficulty in complying with the original deadline.
Acceleration of Fund payments ( Article 8(3 ) )
14. An essential aspect of the effectiveness of the Fund's contribution to regional development is that its payments should be made promptly. The timing of payments depends, however, on that of the payment of the na­ tional aids which have been the basis of the calculation of the Fund's support, and these are disbursed only as and when each part of the work is completed. The emphasis which the Commission has on several occa-
finance new projects 1 ) is liable , in these transfers to backward regions .
The Commission is therefore
scheme for advance payments should be introduced which would ensure a regular and prompt flow of funds to the qualifying regions.
Adoption of new rules concerning the date after which payments quali­ fying for Fund support must have been made (Article 11)
sions placed on the need to circumstances , to slow down
16. The Fund Regulation stipulates that all payments after 1 January 1975 may be referred to for the purpose of Fund support.
17. These arrangements mean that the Fund may provide support for relative­ ly old projects, even projects which have been completed by that date. .
The Commission feels that while this facility could be justified when the Fund was starting up, at the time when the effective working of financial transfers to the backward regions had to be got under way, this is now no longer the case: the Fund can act as a genuine incen­ tive for the creation of new investment and therefore new jobs only
insofar as its assistance concerns projects for which the bulk of the work has still to be carried out at the time when the application for assistance goes to the Commission .
1) For example, in the Fund's annual reports for 1975 and 1976.
for implementing the principle of complementarity
recital of the Fund Regulation states that.:
With a view to this objective/ the Commission proprtes that only
payments made by Member States after the date of submission of the
ammocafion for assistance should bs referred to for the purposes of
Fund support, and concerning investments that have not been completed on that date .
Definition of the framework of new specific regional development measures (Article 12)
18. The new specific Community regional development measures which the Fund will be supporting must enable the Community to provide the dri­ ving force to forestall the regional imbalances liable to occur as a result of changes supervening in world economic structures or of
measures taken by the Community under its policies.
For this purpose. Article 13 gives a list, which is not exhaustive, of the types of measure which the Community could undertake, these being mainly measures to back up or strengthen other Community policies, or measures made necessary by changes in world economic structures.
19. The procedures for the implementation of the specific measures would be adopted case by case by the Council, on the proposals from the Commis­ sion , Parliament having been consulted .
New arrangements for financing studies
20. The Commission proposes to modify the existing arrangements to permit it to take the initiative with studies that are in close relation with
the operations of the Fund. It is foreseen that the Fund could finance up to 100% of these studies and that the Regional Policy Committee be
consulted in
The eleventh
"Whereas the
their own regional development efforts but should complement these efforts ."
Fund's assistance should not lead Member States to reduce
22. The Commission has emphasised on several occasions the need for compliance with this principle/ which is fundamental if the Fund's support is to make any real contribution to the solution of the problem of regional disparities. The principle can be applied in two ways : in the first place , the Community 's aid can be added for each investment to the aid granted by the national authorities; secondly, the financial resources deriving from the Fund can be added globally to the Member States' expenditure on regional development, thus enabling them to speed up and increase their efforts in this field.
. '23 . The first possibility is left to the discretion of the Member States . When they do not use it, the Commission takes the view that arrange­
ments must be made to ensure supervision of the second; it proposes in this connection (Article 18) that the Member States should show
separately the amounts received from the Fund, in particular in the national budgets, and in those of the public agencies, and that they should submit to the Commission, at its request, all relevant infor­ mation to be sufficient to establish that the Fund's resources do in fact have a complementarity character .
 Proposal for a regulation (EEC) No /77 of the Council
amending Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 of the Council
of 18 March 1975 establishing a European Regional Development Fund
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community/ and in particular Article 235 thereof;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament;
Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;
Whereas regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 of the Council of 18 March 1975/ establishing a European Regional Development Fund1 ) / created a European
Regional Development Fund Intended to correct the principal regional imbalances within the Community;
Whereas Article 18 of that Regulation provides that on a proposal from the Commission the Council shall reexamine this regulation before the 1st January 1978;
Whereas/ in view of the development of the economic and social situation in the Community in recent years and particularly the economic crisis due to the increase in the cost of primary products/ it is clear that the assistance provided from the Fund should be diversified to enable it/ firstly, to provide assistance for Community measures supporting the regional policy measures adopted by the Member States and, secondly/ to assist specific Community regional development measures/ in favour of
regions experiencing problems of restructuring and of reconversion; ./.
1 ) OJ L 73 of 21.3.1973
Whereas, in particular/ it must be possible, to extend the geographical scope of Fund assistance to regions or areas other than those established by the Member States under their regional aid systems;
Whereas the general framework in which these specific Community regional development measures will subsequently be adopted should be established;
Whereas the special characteristics of Greenland, of the French overseas departments, of Ireland, of the Mezzogiorno, and of Northern Ireland justify Fund participation in the financing of infrastructure investments up to a rate of 50%;
Whereas experience gained in the first three years of operation of the Fund now enables simplification of the decision-making procedures for Fund assistance to be envisaged;
Whereas the provisions relating to regional development programmes, to annual information and to statistical summaries must be adapted to the changes that have taken place;
Whereas an acceleration of the arrangements for payments from the Fund would facilitate the execution of the investments in favour of which the Fund has Intervened ;
and that the introduction, on certain conditions, of a scheme for advance payments to the Member States will enable this objective to be met;
Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 of the Council of 18 March 1975, establishing a European Regional Development Fund is amended as stipulated in the following Articles.
The text of Article 1 is replaced by the following :
" The European Regional Development Fund , hereinafter referred to as 'the Fund' , is intended to correct the principal regional imbalances within the Community". '
The text of Article 2 is amended as follows : 1. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following :
"As from the budgetary year 1978, the allocation for the Fund
shall be determined annually by the budget of the European Communities ".
2 . Paragraph 2 is replaced by Paragraph 3 .
3. Paragraph 3 is replaced by the following :
The following may be financed by the Fund with a view to
contributing to the realisation of the objectives referred to in Article 1
Community action in support of regional policy measures taken by the Member States, as provided for in Title II of this Regulation .
The resources of the Fund intended for financing these acti­ vities shall be distributed in accordance with the following table :
Belgium 1.5% Denmark 1.3% France 15.0% Ireland 6.0% Italy 40.0% Luxemburg 0.1% Netherlands 1.7% Federal Republic of Germany 6.4% United Kingdom 28.0%
The sum allocated to Ireland shall be calculated so as to ensure that this Member State receives an extra 0.5%, which shall be deducted from the shares allocated to the other Member States , except Italy .
b. Specific Community regional development measures as provided for in Title III of this Regulation.
The whole of the Fund's resources for financing these measures shall be used having due regard to the relative intensity of
regional imbalances as shown by, in particular, the following indicators :
the trend of unemployment rates in the regions during the preceding five years ;
the percentage of the active population occupied in agri­ culture ;
the percentage of the active population occupied in declining industrial sectors ;
the region's migration balance during the preceding five years ;
the fiscal and financial resources of the Member States'.'
Article 4 Article 3 is replaced by the following :
"1. Regions and areas which may benefit from the Fund shall be limited to those aided areas established by Member States in applying their systems of regional aids and in which State aids are granted wich qualify for Fund assistance.
2. The Fund may intervene within the framework of measures provided for in Article 2<3)(b)/ in favour of regions and areas other than those
referred to in paragraph 1, provided that the Member State concerned also intervenes ".
1 . The beginning of the first sentence of paragraph 1 to read as follows :
As part of Community action to support regional policy measures adopted by the Member States, the Fund may
In the same sentence add the word "european" before the words "units of account".
2. The end of the first sentence of the first paragraph of paragraph 1(a) is to read as follows :
"Provided that at least 10 jobs are created or maintained".
3. A third sub-paragraph is added to paragraph 1 (a), as follows :
"For the purposes of this Article, a group of investments which are
related geographically and financially, and which together comply with the criteria provided for in this Article, may be considered as a single investment ".
4. The text of paragraph 1 <b) is replaced by the following :
"b. Investments in infrastructure which contributes to the develop­
ment of the region in which it is located, financed wholly or in part by public authorities or by any other agency respon­
sible , on a similar basis as a public authority , for the creation of infrastructure ".
5. In paragraph 2a, first indent, add the word "european" before the words " unit of account " each time they occur .
6. After the first sub-paragraph of paragraph 2 a, a new sub-paragraph is added as follows :
"With regard to services, the Fund's aid may, notwithstanding the preceding sub-paragraph, exceed 20% of the cost of the investment, provided the amount does not exceed in such a case 10 000 EUA
per job created or maintained, or 50% of the national aids".
7. At the end of the first sentence of the second sub-paragraph of paragraph 2a, after the words "jobs created", the following phrase is added :
"these aids may include aids paid to undertakings in connection with the transfer of workers ".
8. (Linguisti c change not concerning English-language version).
9. In the third sentence of the second sub-paragraph of paragraph 2a, the words "of factories" are replaced by the words "of buildings/ including equipment ".
10. The text of paragraph 2b is replaced by the following :
"b.In respect of investments covered by paragraph 1 (b) and (c), 30% of the expenditure incurred by public authorities when the investment is less than five million european units of account and from 10 to 30% maximum for investments of not less than five million european units of account . However , 50% for projects which are of particular interest for the development of the region, in Greenland, in the French overseas departments, in
Ireland , in the Mezzogiorno and Northern Ireland , the maximum rate shall be 50%.
1. In the first sentence of paragraph 1 the words "in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 12" are deleted.
2. The text of paragraph 1 (b) is replaced by the following :
"b.the consistency of the investment with the Community regional policy guidelines and priority regional development objectives deriving therefrom, and with any other Community measures".
 3. The text of paragraph 2 is replaced by the following :
a . In respect of investment projects costing more than 5 million european units of account/ the Fund's aid shall be the subject of a Commission Decision under the procedure provided for in Article 16;
b. For investment projects costing less than 5 million european units of account, the Commission shall inform the Fund Committee of
Decisions taken . The procedure provided for in Article 16 shall , however, be followed
- for draft negative decisions, where the Member State so requests ;
- for all other draft decisions in respect of which the Commission wishes to receive an Opinion from the Fund Committee".
1. The text of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following :
Investments may benefit from the Fund's assistance only if they fall within the framework of a regional development programme the execution of which may contribute to the correction of the main regional imbalances within the Community liable to impair the proper working of the Common Market and the converging trend of the Member States' economies , with a view , in particular , to the attainment of economic and monetary union.
2. The text of paragraph 2 is replaced by the following :
" 2 . • Regional development programmes shall be established according to
the joint outline prepared by the Regional Policy Committee1 )
3. The end of paragraph 3 is to read as follows ;
"Alterations made to the programmes already notified".
1) OJ No. C 69 of 24.3.1976
4. The text of paragraph 4 is replaced by the following :
"4. The Regional Policy Committee shall be constulted with regard to
the programmes. The Commission shall examine these programmes having regard to the guidelines/ priorities and other Community measures referred to in Article 5 C1) (b). It shall determine
priorities within this framework".
5. The text of paragraph 5 is replaced by the following :
"5. By 31 January each year, the Member States shall bring the
regional development programmes up to date by providing the Commis­ sion with all relevant information for the current year not con­ tained in the programmes on :
a. The financial resources allocated to regional development
within the framework of their programmes;
b. The priority measures on regional development which they intend to implement;
c. The use they intend to make of Community resources and, in particular, of resources from the Fund, in implementing these priority measures".
6. The text of paragraph 6 is replaced by the following :
•'6. Member States shall provide the Commission with an overall statis­
tical summary by 31 Marcheach year indicating by region for the previous year :
a. the results achieved in the region, particularly in terms of investment and employment;
c. the actual use of the resources of the Fund;
d. the total investments carried out and of investment aids granted by the central and local authorities, borken down according to main functions of the public authority".
undertaking concerned , or for infrastructures , responsible authority ,
- the the
- the
name of the name of the
location of the investment ,
1 . The end of the fi rat paragraph reads as follows :
"in view of the priorities referred to in Articles 5 and 6".
2. In the first sentence of paragraph 2, the word "ten" is replaced by the word "five", and the word "european" is added before the words "units of account ".
3. In paragraph 2 (b), the words "its direct link with the development of the activities referred to in Article 4 ( 1 ) ( a )" are replaced by the words "its contribution to the development of the region".
A. In the first sentence of paragraph 3, the word "ten" is replaced by the word "five", and the word "european" is placed before the words "units of account ".
5. In paragraph 3 (b), the words "its direct link with the development of the activities referred to in Article 4 ( 1 ) ( a )" are replaced by the words "its contribution to the development of the region".
6. In paragraph 5, the word "ten" is replaced by the word "five", and the word " european " is added before the words " units of account ".
1. The text of paragraph 1 Ca) is replaced by the following :
- total public expenditure incurred after the date referred to in Article 11 and the part of the amount for which payment is requested ,
 - the amount of payment requested 1rom the Fund, - a forecast of future payment requests;".
2. The text of paragraph 1(b) is replaced by the following :
for final payment requests , all the information referred to under (a) except the last indent, and
- the amount actually invested and a description of the invest­ ments concerned,
- the date of completion of the investment,
- the number of jobs created or maintained by the investments referred to in Article 4 (1) (a),
- the amounts of public expenditure ".
5. The text of paragraph 3 is replaced by the following :
"3. Advance payments may be accorded by the Commission to a Member State at the latter 's request . They may not exceed one-third of the total amount of the aid decision, and may concern only the expenditure provided for in the first 2 years following the beginning of the execution of each project for which an advance payment has been applied for. The balance of the aid to be provided by the Fund shall be paid as and when the payments of the Member States are made relating to that part of the Fund's aid not covered by the advance payment".
6. In paragraph 4 the words "or, if necessary, to the European Investment Bank " are deleted .
1. In Article 9 (1), second paragraph, the words or, where applicable, by
2m In Article 9 (1) the following third paragraph is inse> c^d :
"The Member States shall repay to the Commission the amount of the
Fund's assistance that has been paid 1n relation to a national aid that h^s been repaid by an investor".
3. In Article 9 (2) the following second paragraph is inserted :
"They notify to the Commission those cases referred to in paragraph
Article 11 1. Article 14 becomes Article 10.
2. In Article 10 (1) the words "by agreement with the Member State in question" are deleted.
The second sub-paragraph of Article 19 becomes Article 11 and reads as
The Commission shall take into consideration for Fund assistance the payments made by the Member States after the date on which the request
for assistance is received by the Commission, and concerning investments that have not been completed by that date".
A new Article is inserted after Article 11, worded as follows : "Article 12
1. The Fund may participate in financing specific Community regional deve­ lopment measures which in whole or in part differ from the activities
provided for in Title II and which concern in particular :
a. measures related to other Community policies or complementary
thereto, destined to reinforce or to complement the convergent efforts of Community policies to correct structural imbalances in the regions, and particularly in the areas referred to in the Council Directive 75/268/EEC of 28 April 1975 on mountain and hill farming and farming in certain less-favoured areas1);
1) OJ No. L 128 of 19.5.1975
measures made necessary by the regional consequences of other Community policies;
measures designed to accelerate the creation of jobs in the
Community 's ^ ss-developed regions or in reconversion regions
particularly by facilitating investors' access to capital markets
and the location in these regions of investment originating outside them ;
development measures to be undertaken in frontier regions;
emergency measures intended to meet unforeseeable regional situations ".
Without prejudice to the responsibilities of the Commission with regard to State aids under Articles 92 to 94 of the Treaty, the Council, acting by qualified majority on the proposal from the Commission, having con­ sulted the European Parliament, shall determine as necessary for each Community regional development measure :
a. the nature of the investments to which the Fund may contribute;
b. the areas and regions in which the Fund may intervene;
c. national public intervention taken into consideration for granting the Fund's assistance;
categories of beneficiaries for Fund assistance ; financial mechanisms ".
becomes Article 13 and is worded as follows :
or at the request of one or more Member State.
d. the
e. the
f. the
"1. The
relation with the activities provided for in Article 2 (3). These studies shall be undertaken on the Commission's initiative
Fund may finance, in whole or in part, studies in close
The Fund's assistance is decided by the Comr.ission according to
the procedure provided for in Article 15 after consulting the Regional Policy Committee.
Article 15 Article 11 becomes Article 14 .
Article 12 becomes Article 15 .
Article 17 Article 13 becomes Article 16.
Article 17 is to read as follows :
"The measures necessary to implement the provisions of this
regulation shall be decided according to the procedure laid down in Article 16".
A new Article 18 is inserted, the wording of which is as follows : "Article 18
1. The Member States shall adopt the measures required to indicate distinctly, according to the special characteristics of their relevant national systems, more particularly of their national budgets and of the budgets of public bodies, all monies received from the Fund .
2. At the request of the Commission, Member States shall furnish information on the allocation of amounts received from the Fund; this shall be sufficient to confirm the complementary
character of the Fund ".
Title I. Preliminary Provisions .
Title II : Community action in support of regional policy measures taken by the Member States .
1 : " Field of activity ".
Reserve from the Legal Service
Article 15 becomes Article 19, and is worded as "follows :
"Assistance from the Fund must not change the conditions of compe­ tition in p way incompatible with *.he principles contained in the
relevant provisions of the Treaty,/spelled out, in particular,
in the Principles Co-ordinating the general regional aid schemes.J* In particular, the provisions of this Regulation shall not preju­ dice for example with regard to the determination and the changing of regional aid areas referred to in Article 3 and with regard to Fund participation amounts, the application of Articles 92 to 94
of the Treaty".
Article 16 becomes Article 20. Paragraph 2 becomes the second sub­ paragraph of paragraph 1 and a new paragraph 2 is inserted which reads as follows :
" 2 . The Commission may accompany the report referred to in paragraph 1, as necessary, with proposed modifications to this regulation".
The following subdivisions are introduced into the Regulation :
Title III : Specific Community Regional Development Measures ".
'Title IV : General and Final Provisions ".
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Rgulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council
the President
establishing a European Regional Development Pund.
1# This text includes the whole of the Regulation
2« Additions to the basic text are underlined
3« Deletions in the "basic text are indicated by /7••••••••/
 TITLE I : Preliminary provisions
The European Regional Development Fund hereinafter referred to
as 'the Fund' is intended to correct the principal regional imbalances within the Community /••• ••••/•
1* As from the "budgetary year 197o< the allocation for the Fund shall "be determined annually "by the "budget of the European Communities * -
2# The annual "budget shall indicate for the relevant year under the Fund heading :
Save where otherwise provided for in special provisions laid down in this Regulation, the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Communities shall apply to the management of the Fund#
3. The following may be financed by the Fund with a view to contributing to the realisation of the objectives referred to in Article 1
a. Corrjnunity action in support of regional -policy measures taken by the Member States , as provided for in Title II of this Regulation #
The resources of the Fund intended for financing these activities shall be distributed in accordance with the following table :
Netherlands
Federal Republic of Germany United Kingdom
Furthermora, an amount is granted to Ireland calculated so that
this Member State "benefits from an additional sum of 0.5 which is
deducted fyom the quota of the other Member Stateg with the exception of Italy .
Specific Community regional development measures as provided for in Title III of this Reflation
The whole of the Fund 's resources for financing these measures shall
be used taking account of the relative intensity of regional imbalances shown by , in particular , the following indicators :
- the trend of unemployment rates in the regions during the preceding five years ;
- the percentage of the active population occupied in agriculture ;
- the percentage of the active population occupied in declining industrial sectors;
- the region 's migration balance during the preceding five years ; - the fiscal and financial resources of the Member States.
1. Regions and areas which may benefit from the Fund shall be limited to those aided areas established . by Member States in applying their systems
of regional aids and in which State aids are granted which qualify for Fund assistance *
2, The Fund may intervene within the framework of measures provided for in Article 2(3)(b), in favour of regions and areas other than those referred
to in paragraph 1, provided that the Member State concerned also intervenes.
Chapter 1 : Field of activity
1. With respect to Community action in support of regional policy measures taken "by the Member States, the Fund, may contribute to the financing
of investments which individually exceed 50,000 european units of account, and come under any of the following categories :
Investments in industrial , handicraft , or service activities which are economically sound and which benefit from State regional aids, provided that at least 10 jobs are created or maintained. In the latter case, the investments should fall within the framework of
a conversion or restructuring plan to ensure that the undertaking concerned is competitive . Preference shall , however , be given to operations which both maintain existing jobs and create new jobs.
Service activities qualifying for assistance shall be those con­ cerned with tourism and those which have a choice of location. Such activities should have a direct impact on the development of the region and on the level of employment.
For the purpose of this Article , a grout) of investments which are related geographically , and financially , and which together comply with the criteria provided for in this Article, may be considered
in infrastructures /7......7which contribute to the
of the region in which they are located and are financed wholly or in part by public authorities or by any other agency res­
ponsible, on a similar basis as a public authority, for the creation of infrastructures .
Investments in infrastructures covered in Article 3(2 ) of the Council Directive on mountain and hill farming and farming in certain less favoured areas, provided that the less-favoured area in question corresponds to or is located within one of the regions or axeas covered by Article 3 of this Regulation.
 The amount of the Fund's contribution shall be :
a. In reqpec-Jj of investments covered by paragraph 1(a), 20 % of the investment cost without however exceeding 50 % of the aid accorded to each investment by public authorities under a system of regional aids, such contributions being limited moreover to that part of
the investment which does not exceed 100,000 european units of account per job created and 50,000 european units of account per job maintained.
In the case of the service sector, by derogation from the preceding sub- paragraph , the Fund 's contribution may exceed 20 $ of the cost of the investment without however exceeding in .such a case 10,000 units of
account per .job , created or maintained , nor 50 $ of national aids .
The State aids to be taken into consideration in this connection shall be grants , interest rebates , or their equivalent where loans at
reduced rates are concerned, whether these aids are linked to the investment or to the number of jobs created; these aids may include aids paid to enterprises and related to the transfer of workers. The
aid equivalent £••••••/ shall be calculated in accordance with an implementing Regulation referred to in Article 17# The aid granted in the form of rent rebates or exemptions from payments of rents J of buildings , including equipment may also be taken into account , provided that this form of calculation can be applied.
The contribution from the Fund thus defined may, pursuant to a prior decision of the Member State concerned communicated at the same time
as the request for this contribution, either supplement aid granted to the relevant investment by public authorities or remain credited to those authorities and considered as a partial repayment of such aidf
In respect of investments covered by paragraph lb. and c. 30 $ of
the expenditure incurred by public authorities when the investment is
less than 5 million european units of account, and from 10 to 30 $ maximum for investments of 5 million european units of account or more
These rates may however reach 50 /£ in favour of projects which are
of parti cular interest for the development of the region , in Greenland
in the French overseas departments , in Ireland , in the Kezzogiorno , and in Northern Ireland / /
The Fund 's assistance shall "be decided "by the Commission
according to the relative severity of the economic imbalance of the region where the investment is made and the direct or indirect effect of the investment on employment . The Commission shall examine , in particular, the consistency of the investment with the range of actions undertaken by the relevant Member State in favour of the region con­ cerned, as apparent from information supplied by Member States pursuant to Article 6 and taking special account of:
the investment's contribution to the economic developent of the region;
b. the investments' consistency with the /7. ....^7 guidelines for Community regional policy and the priority objectives for regional policy as well as with the other Community measures;
c. the situation of the economic sector concerned and the profitability of the investment;
d. whether the investment falls within a frontier area, that is to say, within adjacent regions of separate Member States;
e. other contributions made by Community institutions or by the European Investment Bank, either to the same investment or to other activities within the same region. Thus contributions from the ' Fund will be co-ordinated with other Community contributions, in
such a way as to favour a range of converging and co-ordinated actions within a given region and to guarantee in particular con­ sistency between regional policy and structural policy.
The Committee for Regional Policy /7......7shall be consulted about the programmes.
The Commission priorities and the priorities
shall examine these programmes, having regard to the guidelines other measures referred to in Article 5 1 (*>)• It determines within this framework .
, 2# a* The Fund's assistance shall be decided by tho Commission for investment projects of five million units of account or more in accordance with the
procedvjre laid down in Article 16 (Fund Committee).
Ta. The Comrnlosion shall inform the Management Committee of the Fund of decisions
adopted for investment projects of less than five million units of account.
The procedure laid down in Article 16 (Fund Committee) shall hov.rever "be **'
- for draft negative decisions when the Member States so request;
- for all other draft decisions on which the Commission wishes to have the
opinion of the Fund Committee .
1. Investments may benefit from the Fund's assistance only if they fall within the framework of a regional development programme the execution of which may contribute /7.....»7to the correction of the main regional imbalances within the Community, liable to impair the proper working of the Common Market and the converging; trend of the Member States' economies with a view, in particular, to the attainment of - economic and monetary union .
2. Regional development programmes shall be established according to the .joint out­ line prepared by the Regional Policy Committee-^
3. Member States shall notify the Commission of regional development programmes /7.«...»7and alterations ma-de to the programmes already notified.
Member States shall bring their regional development programmes up to date before 31 January each year by supplying the Commission with all useful infor­
mation for the year in question in ro far as this is not already available in the programme on :
a. the financial resources allocated to regional development within the frame­ work of their programmes:
1/ Official Journal of the European Communities N° C69 of 24th March, 1976.
b. the priority measures on regional development which they intend- to implement :
c. the use they intend to make of Community resources and, in par­ ticular of resources from the Fund, in implementing: these
priority measures.
6. Member States shall provide the Commission with an overall statistical summary before 31Kirch each year indicating by region for the previous year ;
a * the results achieved in the region , particularly in terms of
investment and employment;
t>» the financial means employed;
c. the use to which the resources of the Fund have been put.
d. All the investments implemented and the aids to investments granted to the central and local administrations broken down by the principle functions of public administration.
1« Member States shall submit requests for assistance from the Fund to the Commission and shall indicate any factors which will allow the Commission to assess the value of the investments proposed in the light of the dis­ positions provided for in Articles 5 and 6.
2. In respect of the investments referred to in Article 4(l) of an amount less than 5 million european units of account, Member States shall present their global requests at the beginning of each quarter. They shall group these requests by regions and shall separate investments referred to in Article 4(l)a. from investments in infrastructure.
These requests shall indicate :
a* In respect of the investments referred to in Article 4(l)a., the names of the undertakings concerned, the sector of their activity and the location of each investment , also its character , foundation , extension conversion or restructuring of the relevant concern, the total amount of investment involved, the predicted overall effect on employment (creation or maintenance), estimates regarding the implementation schedule, total aids granted for which a contribution from the Fund
is requested and the schedule laid down for their payment. •••/•••
In respect of investments in infrastructure , the lopation of each investment /T».««««7its contribution to the development of the region, the predicted total costs and the costs borne by p^lic authorities and the pche^ule laid down for their payment, the n,ame of the res­ ponsible authorities, the total contribution requested from the
Fund and estimates regarding the implementation schedule .
In respect of investments of million european units of account or more, requests shall be presented separately and shall include the following information:
a* In respect of the investments referred to in Article 4(l)a# the name of the undertaking, the sector of activity, the nature of the invest­ ment , its location , the effect on employment , the implemenation schedule , the grants , interest rebates or loans at reduced rates of interest and the schedule laid down for the payment of such aids,
any other form of aid granted or provided for by public authorities and the financing plan, indicating in particular any other Community aids requested or provided for.
The Member State shall state in its request the total aid which in
its opinion should be granted to the undertaking it is seeking from the Community#
b, In respect of investments in infrastructure , the
the nature of the investment, its location
to the development of the region, its cost, its
its implementation schedule and the schedule laid down for payments#
Aid from the Fund shall be determined by the Commission:
a. in the aggregate for each request referred to in paragraph 2,
b# case by case, for requests covered by paragraph 3#
Member States shall give priority to the presentation of requests for contri­ butions towards investments of 5 million european units of account or more#
and the contribution
responsible authority , its contribution
The amount of the contribution from the Fund, defined , where applicable , by calculating the aid equivalent pursuant to the implementing regula­ tion referred, to in Article 4(2)a.f shall "be paid payi passu with expenditure upon presentation by the Member State of quarterly state­ ments certifying expenditure and the existence of detailed supporting documents, and containing the following information :
a* for 'interim payment requests :
to in Article 11 , and the -part of the amount for which payment is recruested,
- the amount of payment requested from the Fund,
- a forecast of future payment requests; .
"b. for final payment recrueats, all the information referred to under (a) except the last indent , and
- the amount actually invested and a description of the investment concerned ,
- the date of completion of the investment,
- the number of .jobs created or maintained by the investments
referred to in Article 4(l)a«,
- the amounts of public expenditure »
In cases where expenditure provided for by the decisions referred to in Article 7 consists of aids^granted in the form of interest rebates or loans at reduced rates of interest, the contribution of the Fund relating to these aids and which is still due when the investments are completed shall be settled in a single payment on presentation of the certificate covering completion of the investments.
- the
the name of the responsible authority ,
- the
- the
location of the investment ,
total public expenditure incurred after the date referred
name of the imdertakinft concerned , or for infrastructures ,
3. Advances may be planted by the Commission to a Member State at the latter*s request. They may not exceed one third of the total amount of the assistance that has been decided, and may only concern forecast
expenditure during the two years following
■the start of each project for which the advance has "been recrue sted .
The balance of the Funds' assistance is paid nan rcassu with y i.»,
the payments made by the Member State relating: to that part of the Fund 's assistance not covered by the advance .
Member States shall designate the authority or the institution authorised to furnish the certification referred to in this Article. The Commission shall make payments to the Member Sta,te, to an agency designa'f&d by the Member State for this purpose ^7. . • . »»7•
Where an investment which has been the subject of a contribution
from the Fund has not been made as planned, or if the conditions of
this Regulation are not fulfilled, the contribution from the Fund
may be reduced or cancelled, if the Commission so decides after consulting the Fund Committee .
Any sums which have been paid in error shall be repaid to the Community by the Member State concerned within 12 months
following the date on which the relevant decision has been communi­ cated .
The Member State repays to the Commission the amount of the Fund's
assistance that has been paid in relation to a national aid that has been repaid by an investor.
Member States shall make available to the Commission all information required for the effective operation of the Fund and shall take all steps to facilitate such supervision as the Commission may consider
useful in managing the Fund, including on-the-spot checks. They notify to the Commission thoses cases referred tn in first sub- paragraph .
accordance with national laws, regulations and administrative provisions, and without prejudice to the provisions of Article 206 of the Treaty
or to any inspection arranged on the basis of Article 209 (c) of
the Treaty, at the request of the Commission and with the agreement
of the Member State, the competent authorities of that Member State shall carry out on-the-spot checks or enquiries about operations financed by the Fund. Officials of the Commission may take part in
these proceedings and' the Commission may fix a time limit for carrying them out.
The objective of these on-the-spot checks or enquiries about operations financed by the Fund shall be to verify:
(a) the conformity of administrative practices with Community rules­
" Notwithstanding verification carried out by the Member States in
The Commission may suspend payment of aid to a particular project if an inspection reveals either irregularities, or a substantial
.change in the character or conditions of the project for which the Commission's approval has not been sought#
If a project receiving aid from the Fund is not completed or is implemented in such a manner as no longer to justify payment of part of the aid from the.Fund granted on behalf of that project, the outstanding part of the Fund's contribution shall be granted to another investment located in one of the eligible regions of the same Member State under the conditions laid down in this Regulation .
The investors concerned shall be informed that part of the aid granted to them has been provided by the Community. For infrastruc­ ture projects, the Member States by agreement with the Commission, shall take all necessary steps to ensure that assistance from the Fund is given suitable publicity.
The list of projects which have received contributions from the Fund shall be published every six months in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
the existence of supporting documentary evidence and its conformity with the operations financed "by th» Fund;
conditions under which the operations finance^ "by the Fund are executed and checked;
the conformity of projects implemented with the operations financed by the Fund.
The Commission shall take into consideration for Fund assistance the payments made /T......7by the Member States after the date on which the req-uest for assistance is received by the Commission, and concerning investments that have not been completed by that date .
.?he Frmd may participate in financing specific Community regional deve- lopement measures which in whole or in part differ from the activities provided for in Title II and which concern in particular:
(a) measures related to other Community policies or complementary thereto, destined to reinforce or to complement the convergent efforts of Community policies to correct structural imbalances in the regions, and particularly in the areas referred to in the Council Directive 75/268/EBC of 28 April 1975 on mountain and hill farming and farming in certain less-favoured areas .
(b) measures made necessary "by the regional consequences of other Community policies;
(c) measures designed to accelerate the creation of .jobs in the Community's less-developed regions or in reconversion regions
in particular by facilitating investors' access to capital markets
and- the location in these .regions of investments originating outside them;
(cL) development measures to "be undertaken in frontier regions;
(e) emergency measures intended to meet unforeseeable regional situations .
2• WithoutprejudicetotheCommission'scompetenceconcerningstate aids under Articles 9 2-94 of the Treaty the Council shall , acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission after con­ sulting the European Parliament, determine as necessary, for each
Community regional development measure;
(a) the nature of the investments to which the Fund may contribute; (b) the areas and regions in which the Fund may intervene;
1) O.J. II0 L128 of 19.5.1975
(c) the national public intervention taken into consideration for, granting the Fund 's assistance :
(à) the Fond's participation;
(e ) the categories of "beneficiaries for Fund assistance ; x
(f) the financial mechanisms.
The Fund may finance , in whole or in part , studies m close relation with the activities provided for in Article 2 (3). These studies shall "be undertaken on the Commission's initiative or at the request of one or more Mem~ber State .
2. The Fund's assistance is decided by the Commission according to the pro­ cedure provided for in Article 16 (Fund Committee) after consulting the Regional Policy Committee .
A Fund Committee (hereinafter referred to as "the Committee") is hereby
established. It shall be composed of representatives of the I-Iember States V
and chaired by a representative of the Commission.
Within the Committee the votes of Member States shall be weighted in accordance with Article 148 (2) of the Treaty. The Chairman shall not vote.
Where the procedure laid down in this Article is to "be followed) the Chairman shall refer the matter to the Committee either on his own initiative or at
the request of the representative of a Member State .
2. The representative of the Commission shall submit drafts of the decisions to be taken. The Committee shall deliver its Opinion on the drafts within
the time limit which the Chairman may fix according to the urgency of the questions under consideration. An Opinion shall be a majority of 41 votes.
3* The Commission shall adopt decisions which shall apply immediately. However, if tjiese decisions are not in accordance wi-jjh the Opinion of tho Committee, they shall forthwith "be communicated Vy the Commission to tho Council. In that event the Commission shall defer application of the decisipns which it has adopted for not more than two months from the date of such communications# The Council, acting by qualified majority , may take a different decision within two months .
The Committee may consider any other question concerning the Fund's operations referred to it by its Chairman either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of the Member State,
The necessary measures to implement this regulation shall be decided according to the procedure provided for in Article 15 (Fund Committee),
1, The Member States shall adorn; the measures required to indicate in a distinct form, according: to the special characteristics of their relevant national systems, more particularly of their national budgets and of the bud,?ets of public bodies, all monies received 'from the Fund,
2, At the request of the Commission, Member States shall furnish infor­ mation on the allocation of amounts received from the Fund; this shall be sufficient to conform the complementary character of the Fund,
The Funds' intervention must not alter the conditions of competition in a manner incompatible with the principles contained in the relevant -provisions
of the Treaty,/as they are defined in particular in the principles of coordina¬ tion of the general systems of regional aid, /!/'
in "parti cui'ar"," the provisions of this regulation shall not prejudice the application of Articles 92-94 of the Treaty particularly as regards establishing and realigning the areas aided for regional purposes referred to in Article 3 and in respect of the amount of the contributions from the Fund,
l / Reserve from the Legal Service ,
1. Before 1 July each year the Commission shall present a report to the European Parliament and to the Council on the implementation of this Regulation dyeing the preoedins year.
This report qhall also cover the financial management of the Fund and the conclusions drawn by the Commission from supervision to the Fund's operations#
2. The Commission may accompany the report referred to in paragraph 1, as necessary , with proposed modifications to this regulation .
This regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities#
This regulation shall "be "binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
PROPOSAL FOR A REGULATION ( EEC ) No... OF THE COUNCIL of
1. One aim of regional policy is to mobilise a larger volume of capital to
develop less forwarded regions and to facilitate the reconversion of
areas adversely affected by a decline in employment in ceftain indus­ trial sectors.
2. Under the new Article 12 (b) and (c) of the Regulation (EEC) 724/75 the Regional Fund may participate in specific community regional development actions which accelerate the creation of employment by facilitating investors' access to the capital market, and which are required as a result of the regional effects of other community policies.
This regulation responds to this objective by creating a system of interest rebates for certain EIB and ECSC loans and possibly for other loans granted by the European Communities.
The two principal obstacles to such financing are the exchange risks and high rates of interest .
3. Experience has shown during recent years that the terms and conditions on which ECSC and EIB loans can be offered have not been sufficiently
attractive to provide the necessary stimulus to investors. Consequent­ ly, not only is the effectiveness of these instruments impaired, but
the opportunity they afford of transferring capital to the national economies whose regional development and reconversion problems are most acute is thereby seriously constrained.
At present, only certain loans from the European Coal and gteel Commu­ nity benefit from interest rebates financed by the Community. These
interest rebates are limited by the ECSC budget resources pet aside
for tfyis purpose; foost pf them are granted for reconversion loans under
Article 56 of the f(CSC Treaty. This proposal will permit interest rebates to be granted on EIB loans in respect of other development and reconversion problems in other sectors and to increase the resources available for rebates on ECSC loans .
4. The Commission proposes that certain loans granted by the Commission and the EIB should be eligible for interest rebates. The corresponding investments should, create or maintain employment, fall within regions in which the regional fund can be applied and for which regional deve­ lopment programmes have been presented and conform to the other rules and criteria set out in this regulation.
The proposed system would permit interest rebates to be granted on Commission and EIB loans which would, for example :
accelerate the industrial development of the remaining predomi­ nantly agricultural areas of the Community;
help provide alternative activities in localities where an exis­ ting economic activity is declining as a result of the Community's commercial or industrial policies;
facilitate the reconversion of areas affected by the decline in employment in certain industrial sectors .
The system would create aid to investors borrowing from Community sources in those cases where such assistance is justified either by the gravity of the economic problems or by their origin in other Community policies.
5. The interest rebates will be granted by the Commission on the basis of regional priorities taking account of the criteria referred to in Article 5 of the regulation ( EEC) No . 724/ 75 as amended . In the case
of global loans, the Commission will fix the criteria to be followed by intermediary agencies in granting subsidiary loans.
 proposal for Regulation (EEC) No of the Council pf establishing an interest rebate scheme within the Europpan Regional Development Fund
Having regard to the Treaty instituting the European Economic Communi ty ;
Having regard to Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 of the Council of
18 March 1975 establishing a European Development Fund , as amended
by Regulation (EEC) No.... of the Council of amending Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75^, and in particular Article 13 (2) (c) thereof;
Having regard to the proposal of the Commission;
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament;
Whereas Article 12 of the said Regulation provides that the Fund may participate in financing specific Community regional development measures, and particularly measures designed to accelerate the creation of jobs in the Community's less-developed regions or in reconversion regions by facilitating investors' access to the capital market;
Whereas one of the main obstacles hampering undertakings wishing to take advantage of loans offered by Community institutions or by the European Investment Bank is the level of interest rate these loans ■ carry ;
Whereas the establishment of an interest rebate scheme within the European Regional Development Fund may enable undertakings to avail themselves more readily of Community loan opportunities, and may in this way facilitate their expansion;
 Whereas these interest rebates may concern either individual Loans or loans granted to intermediary agencies with respect to enterprises
below a cert air) size ;
Whereas interest rebates must not, however, exceed certain limits, so as to avoid an undue reduction in the interest rate to be borne by the investor ;
Whereas interest rebates should be granted only on loans intended for the financing of investments meeting the criteria set out in Article 4
(1)(a) of Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75, as amended, and located in the regions or in the areas referred to in Article 3 of the same Regulation provided that such regions or areas have been the subject of regional development programmes and that these programmes have been submitted
to the Commission ;
Whereas the Commission will decide on the requests for interest rebates on individual loans on the basis of criteria referred to in Article 5 of the regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 as amended, and that it will fix criteria to be respected by the intermediary agencies for granting subsidiary loans ;
Whereas it is necessary to simplify the consultation procedure for the Fund Committee ;
Whereas, finally, it is necessary to provide for the analogous application of Article 9 of the regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 as amended;
Loans from the European Communities or from the European Investment Bank may receive an interest rebate paid from the European Regional Development Fund.#
These interest rebates may be granted according to the rules laid down in this regulation.
Article 2 Interest rebates may be granted on:
a) global loans made to intermediary agencies
for the purpose of allocating subsidiary loans to finance investments to be carried out by undertakings with total employment of less than 500 people, with net fixed assets employed of less than 30 million european units of account (EUA) and in whose capital structure larger enterprises, other than institutions responsible for contributing to regional develop­ ment by promoting industrial projects, hold no more than a one- third participation.
b) individual loans to enterprises.
The maximum interest rebate is fixed at 5 percentage points per year of
the initial capital value of the loan expressed in or oonverted to EUA on the basis of the rates published in the Official Journal of the
European Communities for the first five years of the loan* ■
The interest rebate shall be no more than 40 $ of the rate of interest observed on the national long term capital market of the Member State concerned .
The interest rebate shall not reduce the rate of interest payable by
the investor for the first five years of the loan to less than 4 $ taking account of possible interest rebates granted by the Member State con­ cerned .
The maximum individual loan or, in the case of a global loan, the maximum subsidiary loan eligible for the interest rebate shall be no more than
50.000 EUA per job created or maintained in the meaning of Article 4 of the regulation EEC N° 724/75 of "the Council of 18th March, 1975*i/
Applications for interest rebates shall be made to the Commission by the borrowers either directly or through the European Investment Bank where, itsownloansareconcerned. Theapplicationshallspecifytheamount' of the loan, the terms and conditions governing the grant of the loan and all details required to justify and fix the interest rebate .
Applications for global loans shall be accompanied by a description of the intermediary borrower and its activities.
Applications shall be notified by the Commission to the Member State in whichtheinvestmentiscarriedout. TheMemberStateshallinformthe
Commission of its objections, if any, within 30 days. if as amended
1. Granting the interest rebates is decided by the Commission subject to
a decision to grant a loan by the responsible Community body in
accordance wit^ the procedure laid down in Article 15 of Regulation (ESC) 724/ 73.
The Fund Committee shall be consulted by way of written procedure .
The Member States inform the Commission of their observations and objections, if any, within 15 days of expedition of the draft decisions.
If a Member State so requests , the written procedure is suspended and a special meeting of the Fund Committee is convened within the next 15 days to examine the draft decision in question.
2. Interest rebates may be granted on loans intended to finance invest­ ments conforming to the following conditions:
a. investments carried out in regions or areas referred to in Article 3
first paragraph of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75» for which regional development programmes have been communicated to the Commission
pursuant to the provisions of Article 6(l) of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75«I/
b. investments conforming to the criteria laid down in Article 4(l)a. of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75-1/
3. The Commission shall decide to grant an interest rebate taking account of the provisions of Articles 5 a^d 6 of Regulation (EEC) NO 724/75. L/
4. The Commission indicates periodically to the EIB the criteria and priorities that the Commission will take into account in granting rebates on indivi­ dual loans accorded by the Bank.
5. For global loans the Commission fixes the criteria to be respected by the intermediary agencies in granting subsidiary loans.
1. The amount of the interest rebate shall be calculated and paid in EUA.
2. In the case of individual loans, the rebate shall be paid directly to the borrower , at his request , when corresponding interest payments fall due .
Requests for payment shall be accompanied by information as to the amount and date of the corresponding interest payment and by confirmation that the loan is fully paid up-to-date*
 In the case of global loans, the present value of tho interest rebate shall "be calculated in EUA, on the date of signature of the loan contract, on the basis! of a rate of interest fixed at 75 % of "j>he rate of interest of the corresponding loan.
The total capj-talised amount of the interest rebate shall be paid by the Commission to the EIB or to the ECSC budget on the date of signa­ ture of the loan contract.
Every three months the EIB communicates to the Commission each alloca­ tion made from a global loan, accompanied by the necessary information to assess the case#
If an open loan account is cancelled, in whole or in part, or.an issued loan is. prepaid, either wholly or in part, an amount corresponding to the part of the loan account closed or the proportion of the loan prepaid, with added interest capitalised at the same rate as that referred to in paragraph 1 abovementioned for the period from the date of payment of the total capitalised interest rebate and the date of repayment, shall be paid to the Commission.
The provisions of Article 9 of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/7!? are applicable by analogy to the investments and loans, benefitting from interest rebates pursuant to this regulation.
The Commission shall inform recipients of individual loans of the interestrebatestheyreceive. Recipientsofsub-loansfromglobal loans shall be informed in their contract with the intermediary borrower that the loan conditions are a consequence of Community aid and interest rebates from the European Regional Development Fund.
1/ as amended
A list of the loans that have "benefitted from interest jrebates shall "be published, every pix months in the Official Journal of the European Communities *
The Commission shall report to the Parliament and to the Council on the application of this regulation in the report provided for in Article 20 of Regulation (EEC) 724/75.
This regulation enters into effect the third day following its publication ' in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This regulation shall be binding and directly applicable in all Member States .
1/ as amended,
For the Council The President .
1* It ia essential that publio source0 of finance be available for regional purposes, pr having a regional impact for investments to "be
undertaken "by enterprises. The European Community disposes of two instruments for th},p the European Investment Bank's loans for regional purposes and the lqxms granted "by the Commission under Article 54 and 56 of the ECSC Treaty. The Commission is considering the possibility of extending loans for structural purposes from other resources borrowed by the Community.
2. Under Article 12 of the Regulation (EEC) 724/75» &s amended, the regional fund may participate in specific Community regional develop­ ment actions which accelerate the creation of employment in less for­ warded areas of the Community by facilitating investors access to the capital market .
This regulation falls into this context by providing exchange risk guarantees to small and medium sized enterprises borrowing from the European Investment Bank, the European Coal and Steel Community and eventually other loans granted by the European Communities.
The two principal obstacles to such financing are high rates of interest and exchange risks .
3. The currencies in which the EIB and ECSC lend are determined by those in which they are able to borrow. The EIB's policy is to lend either in a variable "cocktail" of currencies, usually including a limited proportion of the borrower's national currency or in one of certain specified currencies. The ECSC lends in tranches of single currencies
which are not usually those of the borrowers. These loans are granted both in certain Community currencies and in certain third country currencies . No existing source of Community lending yet denominates its loans in the European unit of account.
 Mosi; enterprises conduct "their business in their national currency.
Consequently if they "borrow in foreign currencies they run |he risk "ihat their debt service payments "become higher than expected if their
Rational currency depreciates against the currencies of the loan, which has a negative effect on the financial situation of the enterprise .
Because of these exq^ange risks, loans from EIB and ECSC are granted predominately to large companies that are prepared to assume these risks and to nationalised enterprises and other public agencies receiving exchange risk cover from their Governments.
In particular, loans to small and medium sized enterprises are at an unsatisfactorily low level in most member countries because of exchange risks . In those cases when EIB and ECSC have been able to lend to such
companies it is by virtue of exchange risk guarantees granted by governments .
The Commission proposes that exchange risk cover should be generally available to enterprises below a certain size when they borrow from the
Community or from the EIB. In order to exclude investments above a certain size , and those undertaken "by enterprises exceeding certain limits, the proposed guarantees would be limited to projects eligible for loans under global loan facilities granted through intermediary financial agencies. The EIB and the Commission already operate a system of global loans for such cases.
By virtue of the guarantee that is envisaged, the intermediary agencies would be more ready to borrow from Community sources which generally represent funds which are not otherwise available on the national
capital market, and the enterprises would benefit from funds that are available but which they are not at present able to contemplate.
The proposed regulation provides that the Commission may fix the rate of interest at which the proceeds of the global loans may be relent to enterprises. This rate of interest to be related to the national capital markets, and any resulting margin to be retained by the inter­ mediary agency.
 The Commission proposes that the exchange losses incurred p.s a result of these guarantees be shared, "between the national authorities and the
Community: the CoiRpunity paying for that part of the loss corresponding
to the difference 'between the "borrowed currency and the EUA, and the
Member State paying for the part corresponding to the difference between the EUA and the national currency.
The part of the guarantee that may be chargeable to the Community budget cannot be calculated in advance, since it depends on future movement of currency rates. Consequently, it is proposed to place an annual upper limit on the amount of lending to be eligible for these guarantees.
The guarantees will be granted by the Commission on the basis of regional development priorities and on the intermediary agencies' ability to grant the corresponding subsidiary loans. The Commission shall fix the criteria to be followed by these agencies.
 Proposal for a Regulation (EEC) K°
establishing an exchange loss guarantee scheme within the European Regional Development Fund.
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economio Community;
having regard to Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75 of "the Council of 18th March 1975 establishing a European Regional Development Fund as amended
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission; Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament;
Whereas Article 12 of the said Regulation provides that the Fund may par­ ticipate in financing specific Community regional development measures, and particularly measures designed to accelerate the creation of jobs in the Community's less-developed regions or in reconversion regions by facilitating investors' access to the capital markets;
Whereas the smaller undertakings find it difficult to borrow from the Community institutions because of the risk of exchange losses that they are liable to incur;
Whereas these undertakings play an important role in regional development by creating jobs; whereas the creation of a Community exchange loss guarantee scheme would enable them to take advantage of Community loan sources and
would thus encourage their growth;
of "the Council of
 YJhereas Article 12 of the said Regulation provides that the Fund may par­ ticipate in financing specifio Community regional development measures, and
particularly measures designed to acoelerate the creation of jobs in the Community's less-deyeloped regions or in reconversion regions "by facilitating
investors' access t^ the capital markets;
V/hereas the smaller undertakings find it difficult to borrow from the Community institutions because of the risk of exchange losses that they are liable to incur;
Whereas these undertakings play an important role in regional development by creating jobs; whereas the creation of a Community exchange loss guarantee scheme would enable them to take advantage of Community loan sources and would encourage their growth;
Whereas this guarantee will concern loans granted to intermediary agencies for enterprises below a certain size ;
Whereas the Community could not, however, guarantee all exchange losses liable to be suffered by an undertaking, and v/hereas therefore the Community guarantee should be confined to the difference between the value of the currency of the loan contracted by the undertaking and the value of the European Unit of Account, the Member State concerned to cover the difference between the value of the European Unit of Account and the value of the borrower's national currency;
V/hereas the exchange loss guarantee should be granted only as loans intended.' for the financing of investments meeting the criteria set out in Article 4 (l)(a) of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75i as amended, and located in the regions or in the areas referred to in Article 3 of the same Regulation, provided that such regions or areas have been the subject of regional development programmes and that these programmes have been submitted to 1he Commission;
Whereas the Commission will fix the criteria to be respected by the inter­ mediary agencies for granting subsidiary loans;
Whereas it is necessary to simplify the consultation procedure for the Fund Committee ;
V/hereas, finally, it is necessary to provide for the analagous application of Article 9 of the Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75 &s amended;
A Community Excb(ang% Lose Guarantee system is created to cover tmder the
conditions laid dow^ in this Regulation the exchange losses defined in Article 2 granted by the European Communities or "by the European Investment Sank.
■ Under this system guarantees may he given which are in conformity with the rules laid down in this Regulation and up to an annual limit for loans indicated in the general "budget of the European Communities.
Guarantees may be granted for loans issued to intermediary agencies, here­ inafter referred to as global loans, to be allocated to finance investments to be carried out by undertakings, with total employment of less than 500 people, with net fixed assets employed of less than 30 million EUA and in whose capital structure larger coricems, other than institutions contributing to regional development by promoting industrial projects, hold no more than a one–third participation.
1. TheexchangelossespaidforbytheCommunity,calculatedmEUA, consist of the difference between:
– the total amount in national currency to be paid by the borrower at each repayment, and
– the total amount in national currency that the same borrower would have had to pay if it had received the same loan expressed in EUA#
2. TheMemberStatesortheorganisationsthattheydesignateshallcover at each repayment the difference between total exchange loss and that part of exchange loss covered by the Community.
3. TheexchangelossincurredbytheCommissionateachduepaymentshall
be more than the total exchange loss incurred at the same payment. <4#/#
Applications for guarantees shall "be made to the Commission by the Member State concerned pr by the responsible national agency#
1* Granting the guareintees is decided by the Commission subject to a
1 decision to grant the loan by the responsible Community body in accor­
dance with the procedure laid down in Article 15 of Regulation (EEC) 724/75. 1/
The Fund Committee shall be consulted by way of written procedure#
Member States inform the Commission of their observations and objections, if any, within 15 days of expedition of the draft decisions#
If a Member State so requests, the written procedure is suspended and a special meeting of the Fund Committee is convened within the next 15 days to examine the draft decision in question#
2# Guarantees may be granted on loans intended to finance investments con­ forming to the following conditions:
a# investments carried out in re^yms or areas referred to in Article 3f of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75, for which regional development pro­
grammes have been communicated to the Commission pursuant to the provisions of Article 6, paragraph 1 of Regulation (EEC) K° 724/75. l/
b# investments conforming to the criteria laid down in Article 4, para- ' graph la of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75. 1/
3# The Commission shall decide to grant a guarantee taking account of the provisions of Article 6 of Regulation (EEC) N® 724/75# l/
As amended .
 4» The Commission ftxer. the criteria to be respected by tha intermediary agencies in granting subsidiary loans.
Pr.B commission shall decide case "by case and in agreement with the Member 53tute concerned the jpate of interest to be applied to sub-loans granted within the framework of the global loan in question.
This rate shall be decided in particular in the light of the rate of interest on the national long terra capital market and the margin to be
retained by the intermediary borrower to cover management costs and commer­ cial risks .
The Commission shall pay to the Member State concerned or to the responsible agency the part of the exchange loss incurred by the Community pursuant to Article 3(l).
Requests for payment shall be sent quarterly "by the Member State to the Commission; they shall be accompanied by the necessary evidence#
Payments shall be expressed in EUA.
The provisions of Article 9 of Regulation (EEC) IT0 724/75"are applicable by analogy to investments and loans benefitting from exchange risk guarantees granted pursuant to this Regulation.
The Commission shall inform intermediary borrowers and final beneficiaries of the exchange risk guarantees granted by the Community.
A list of the guarantees granted shall be published every six months in the Official Journal of the European Communities .
The Commission shall report to the Parliament and to the Council on the application of this Regulation in the report provided for in Article 20 of Regulation (EEC) 724/75 • as amended.
This regulation enters into effect on the third day following its publi­ cation in the Official Journal of the European Communities*
This regulation shall be "binding and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council, The President .
Results of special Chefs de Cabinet's meeting, Friday 27 May 1977
The Chefs de Cabinet met on Friday 27 May, with Mr Michael Emerson, Adviser, President's Cabinet, in the chair, to prepare the Commission's discussion on this subject at its meeting on 1 June 1977.
The meeting considered a revised draft Commission communication to the Council submitted by Mr Giolitti, numbered COM(77)l95/5 an<! entitled "Guidelines for Community Regional Policy".
The document was discussed in detail, and amendments were made, to be embodied in the revised version to be issued shortly as COM(77)195/6.
 t was agreed to recommend that the Commission endorse the agreement
reached by the Chefs de Cabinet on the instruments therein, subject to the following.
Important points to which the Commission's attention is drawn
1* Regional impact of Community policies (subsection 23 of draft communication )
The Chefs de Cabinet considered the procedural implications of the following text which they agreed to submit to the Commission:
"In preparing its proposals for the implementation of major Community policies, the Commission will consider their regional implications" (subsection 23, 1st sentence).
It was then agreed by most of them to suggest that the Commission make the following entry in its minutes :
"The Community regional policy guidelines just adopted by the Commission provide inter alia for an assessment of the regional impactofthemajorCommunitypolicies. TheCommissionaccordingly gave instructions that the departments responsible for the several policies, acting in close cooperation with DG XVI, bear in mind
in framing these the regional implications they could have. The departments are to supply the Commission with all necessary particulars to enable it to appraise these implications and decide on such measures as may be needed to deal with them."
Reservation entered by Mr Gundelach's Chef de Cabinet.
It was agreed that Mr Gundelach's and Mr GioLitti's Chefs de Cabinet should talk the matter over in an effort to resolve this
difference of opinion, and the outcome, if any, reported to the Chefs de Cabinet's weekly meeting on Tuesday 31 May.
2. Proposed breakdown between quota and non-quota sections (Article 2 ^ of Regulation )
• Mr Giolitti'fi Chef de Cabinet said Mr Giolitti would be telling
the Commission what he proposed the breakdown should be between th£ quota and non-quota sections within the overall appropriation of 750 MEUA.
References are to "Working Document concerning the Proposal for a
Council Regulation (EEC) No amending Regulation (EEC) (No 72^/75) of the Council of 18 March 1975 establishing a European Regional Development Fund" in Doc. COM(77)195/7.
8 concerns use of the non-quotfi section, a number of reservations remained unresolved:
(a) desirability of taking account of "relative intensity of regional imbalancea"
reservation by Mr Vredeling's Chef de Cabinet, who regarded this concept as unduly rigid;
(b) desirability of taking account, in assessing this relative intensity, of:
Member_States^fiscal and financial resources
reservations by Mr Ortoli's and Vicomte Davignon's Chefs de Cabinet1
Mr Giolitti made the point that fiscal and financial capacity was
an indicator to be employed with caution. -Mr Vouel's Chef de Cabinet suggested following "the fiscal and financial resources of the Member States" by "the regional gross domestic product and possible movement thereof"; Mr Giolitti's Chef de Cabinet promised to submit this suggestion to Mr Giolitti;
reservation by Mr Vredeling's Chef de Cabinet.
The meeting discussed the possibility of adverse reaction to the idea of a non-quota section from the Member States fearing diminution of their share in the Fund as a whole. Mr Giolitti's Chef de Cabinet
explained that it was to allay any such fear that the idea of guaranteeing the real value of preceding contributions was put forward in the draft communication (subsections *»3 and hk). Some of the Chefs de Cabinet, however, felt this idea might cause the Member States to reject the
non-quota section or reduce it to a minimum. «-
It was agreed to draw the Commission's attention to this tactical dilemma .
As concerns the quota section (Article 2(3)(a) of the Regulation: see footnote on p. 2), Mr Ortoli's Chef de Cabinet observed that the draft incorporated unchanged the 1975 quotas: he queried the economic justification for this, which he regarded as motivated by political considerations .
If these reservations are endorsed, the relevant portions of the communication will have to be amended.
 3. The meeting discussed whether the communication should include reference to the idea of a system of acquiring shares in regional development corporations and in certain undertakings (subsection h7 of
system should be confined to participations in regional development .corporations only.
k. Establishment of a new Committee bringing together the two sides
of industry and representatives of the Governments and of the regional and local authorities .(subsection 59, of draft communication)
After a discussion as to whether it would be better to set up a new Committee or to expand the membership and terms of reference of
the Standing Committee on Employment, most of the Chefs de Cabinet concluded that the Commission should be recommended to take the following
"The Commission considered the desirability of instituting a body bringing together representatives of the Member States' Govern­
ments, representatives of regional and local authorities and the two sides of industry, to allow regular comparison of the
choices before the Community and the Member States" (subsection 59).
5. Desirability of proposal for Regulation on exchange loss guarantee system
Mr Brunner's, Mr Vouel's, Vicome Davignon's and Mr Tugendhat's Chefs
de Cabinet entered reservations with respect to any such proposal at all.
Some of them further said that if the principle were approved they would havetechnicalreservations. Thesuggestionwasmadethattheidea
of a guarantee system could be mentioned in the text of the proposal, without actually proposing it.
 It was agreed that if the Commission approved the principle of the proposal the Chefs de Cabinet should start forthwith on discussing
the technical aspects in order not to delay the dispatch of the whole corpus of material to the Council.
Review ofsystem(Article20ofRegulation:seefootnoteonp.2)
It was agreed to recommend this text to the Commission, with the observation that para 2 was justified by the fact that the proposed system was to be permanent and not temporary.
Points still subject to some disagreement
Interim reservation by Mr Ortoli 's Chef de Cabinet on subsections 53-56 of draft communication.
2. Article 6 of Regulation
Interim reservation by Mr Tugendhat's Chef de Cabinet.
3» Principle of system of advances (Article 8(3) of Regulation)
Most of the Chefs de Cabinet were agreed in recommending to the CommissionthetextembodiedinArticle8(3)« MrTugendhat's
Chef de Cabinet entered a reservation with respect to the whole idea of such a system.
4. Article 11 of Regulation
Most of the Chefs de Cabinet were agreed in recommending to the
Commission the text of Article 11 of the draft Regulation. Mr Tugend- hat's Chef de Cabinet entered an interim reservation.
Several Chefs de Cabinet having expressed the view that eventually the fund should subsidize only future projects in order to exert real
influence on the options, it was agreed to suggest that the Commission record in its minutes that it would be devoting particular attention to this matter at the periodic reviews of the Fund's operation, in
the light of experience.
Most of the Chefs de Cabinet were agreed in recommending thi text to the Commission, with the suggestion that it record in its minutes that the text did not accord priority to hill farming as concerns the non-quota section.
(Communication and Proposals from the Commission to the Council)
 GUI DELINES POR COMMUNITY HEGì (MAL POLICY Communication from the Commission to the Council
Articles 2 and 18 of Council Regulation (EEC) Ro* ,724/ 75 of 18 Maroh 1975 establishing a European Regional Development Fund requires that in 1977 the Commission should lay before the Council proposals for the Community's regional policy and for the Fund. The purpose of the present communication from the Commission to the Council is to comply with this requirement.
I. The economic and social "background (6–10) 3
III. Means of Action (15–56) 7
Establishing a comprehensive system of
analysis and policy formulation (15–20) 7 Regional impact assessment of
Community policies (21-24) 9 Co-ordination of national regional policies (25–31) 10 The Regional Policy Committee (32-35) 12 Strengthening and diversifying financial
a) the European Regional Development Fund (36-50) 13
i. The problems (38) 14
ii. Location of the problems (39-42) 14
iii. Itypes of financial assistance (43-46) 16
iv. Use of the appropriate financial
Proposed amendment to the Council deoision No. 74/ 120 of the
18th February 1974 on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the member states of the EEC, as well asto
the decision of the Council No. 75/l85 of 18th March 1975 setting up a Regional Policy Committee.
Proposal for a Regulation of the Council amending the regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 of the Council of 18th March 1975 creating the European Regional Development Fund.
rebate system within the European Regional Development Fund.
Proposal for a regulation of the Council establishing an interest
1. The time has come for the Community to define clearly an overall
approach to Community regional policy for the coming years and to specify in detail the measures to "be adopted within the framework of the policy. This entails certain changes to existing regional policy instruments : the Regional Policy Committee and the European Regional Development Fund.
The need to define regional policy is laid down in Council Regulation No. 724/75 and has been stressed by the European Parliament in its
Resolution on aspects of Community regional policy to be developed in the future, by the Economic and Social Committee and by the social partners.
In this context, the Commission proposes the development of specific Comm­ unity actions. As well as general support for the regional policies of the Member States – designed mainly to remedy existing regional problems –
Community actions will aim to help solve the new problems resulting from the economic and social situation the Community faces at the present time.
2. The economic and social context within which Community regional policy falls has changed fundamentally since the early seventies, when the first measures of Community regional policy were conceived. New problems of adaptation and redevelopment have been added to continuing regional inequalities .
The first part of this paper is concerned with the analysis of this new economic and social context, since it is the decisive factor in determi­
ning the substance of Community regional policy.
3. The aims of Community regional policy are dealt with in the second part of the paper. These aims reflect the major problems mentioned above : the reduction of continuing regional problems and the prevention of new regional problems arising from the ohange in the structure of the world economy or from policies initiated by the Community.
4. The means the Community requires to meet these aims are the subject of the third part of the paper. These include the development of new methods of analysing problems and preparing decisions , changes in existing instruments and the creation of new ones.
5. Finally, the Commission takes the view that Community regional policy should be comprehensive. This means that it must be conceived and worked out with the whole territory of the Community in mind.
Particular attention should be paid to a policy for regional adds as a way of ensuring the right conditions for the proper working of the
Common Market. Community regional policy should aim at giving a geographical dimension to all other Community policies from their inception. Through the co-ordination of Community financial instruments, it should help achieve coherence between all structural measures.
6. Community decisions on regional policy adopted in 1975^ were essent­
ially the reflection of two facts . First , the progressive establishment of the common market had not achieved the positive results expected in terms of a "better distribution of economic activity throughout Community territory. On the contrary, the prosperity of the richer regions in­ creased while regions with less advanced economies encountered increas­ ing difficulty in integrating themselves into the growing market. This was largely a consequence of the way in which the Treaty was conceived and implemented, with the emphasis mainly on the abolition of harriers to trade. The sustained growth of the Community economy over this period clearly had positive results , even in the less favoured regions , hut it contributed equally to hiding the persistent imbalances which had existed before the establishment of the common market.
In view of this, it seemed indispensable to give the Community the tools for its own regional policy, since the Community alone was able to assess the real extent of the problems and, by adding its effort to that of the Member States, to contribute to solving the most serious ones.
7. These preoccupations remain valid. One can now state some years later that, despite increased efforts by the Member States and the Community to speed up the development of the least favoured regions, the situation has not changed fundamentally and imbalances between regions remain excessive .
8. Economic and social trends in recent years have make the situation even more complicated and worrying. Since 1973 the effects of the economic crisis and the increased cost of raw materials have led to a slower
growth rate and less inclination to invest.
( l ) Council regulations and decisions of 18 March 1975 » OJ No. L 73 of 21 March 1975
In an economy whose growth rate has so declined, the development of the weaker regions is seriously affected, and the persistence of regional imbalances even threatens the proper functioning of the common market itself. Indeed,notonlydothelessdevelopedregionsfailtointegrate fully within the Community, "but the problems to which they give rise become an increasingly heavy burden on national economies and thus increase the pressure on the public authorities concerned to refuse the
constraints inherent in the mechanism of Community integration. It is moreover an illusion to hope for the convergence of Member States*
economies so long as regional problems continue to weight so heavily on certain economies.
Furthermore, the new international division of labour now gradually emerging is imposing major structural changes on the Community economy, so creating new sources of regional imbalance.
9. In the light of this situation, Community regional policy must become more ambitious than in the past. Even in a period of sustained growth, the assistance given to the least favoured regions did not make a sufficient contribution to the reduction of regional differences. As well as an increased effort to improve the working of the Common Market , a comprehensive policy of structural change is necessary. This should help both the regions that were insufficiently developed even before the
creation of the Common Market and regions either experiencing or vulnerable to the difficulties of restructuring and redevelopment.
10. It follows from this situation that Community regional policy must be strengthened and its field of application expanded. This is not only desirable : it is now one of the conditions of continuing European economic integration.
11. Community regional polioy has two main aims; firstly to reduce existing regional problems which appear "both in regions traditionally less developed and in those involved in a process of industrial or agri­ cultural reconversion; secondly to prevent new regional imbalances arising from the change in world economio structures or from measures adopted by the Community within the framework of its own policies.
The achievement of these aims implies a close co-operation between the Community and each Member State and the realisation of a variety of tasks .
12. The tasks involve firstly the permanent analysis and assessment of trends in regional economies throughout the whole Community territory, principally, though not only, in the field of employment, to assess the range and nature of the regional imbalances affecting the integration processatCommunitylevel. SecondlytheyrequirethatCommunity policies and financial instruments, structural and other, are used in a coherent and convergent way, if their consequences may, at one time or another,havearegionalimpact. Thirdlytheremustbeco-ordination
of the regional policies of Member States, both mutually and in relation to Community aims. Fourthly.and finally,there is the question of a polioy on financial assistance (Regional Fund); on the one hand, this takes
the form of support for national regional policies, and on the other it must be a catalyst in working out and applying specific development and reconversion measures at Community level.
13. These aims and their achievement fall within the framework of an active
employmentpolicy. InthepresenteconomiosituationoftheCommunity, the creation of new jobs in regious where structural unemployment is greatestmustbeaprioritytask. Onthebasisofstudiesofregional
employment balances and the regional development programme ,the Community should make for eaoh region quantified forecasts of employment for a set
period, taking particular account of the employment situation in agri­ culture.
 Since the adjustments required for the balanced development of economic activities in the Community cannot "be achieved "by large scale migratory movements, "better distribution of the factors of production within the Community must be achieved by creating new jobs in regions of structural under-employment and alternative jobs in regions affected by the need
to renew and convert their economic structures.
Its comprehensive approaoh now places Community regional
policy in the perspective of Community land use planning. In implement­ ing the policy, the Commission will, particularly by means of the regional development programmes, make an effort to promote a rational use of space, a balanced distribution of activities over the whole Community territory and effective protection of the environment and living conditions : as early as November 1973» the Community acknow­ ledged that balanced economio development throughout the whole
Community was inconceivable without an effective campaign against pollution and nuisances (l).
(l) Programme of Environmental Aotion of the European Communities, 22nd November 1973 (OJ C 112 of 20.12.73).
A. Establishing a comprehensive^system of analysis and_polic.y formulation
15. A comprehensive approach to regional policy involves strengthening the system of analysis and assessment of the regional economies of the Community as a whole and of their respective development.
This analysis should include all regions and be as exhaustive as poss­ ible. Indeed, a detailed knowledge of the development of all regions, including the relatively prosperous regions whioh supply a large part of the resources required, will assist in diagnosing and remedying regional problems .
16. With this intention, the tasks to be undertaken are :
– to analyse regional trends and, in particular, to consider how regional disparities have developed;
– to pinpoint regions facing or likely to face problems of Community size;
– to work out a joint method for assessing the results of national and Community regional policies;
– to provide the statistical and methodological basis needed to assess the regional effects of Community policies.
17. A special effort to improve statistics beyond what is currently available is needed in this respect, both by Member States and by the Community. This statistical tool includes a number of key regional indicators to be worked out on a Community basis, such as activity rates, employment by sector, -unemployment, employment shortfalls forecasts, net migration, GUP and income per head of population and per employed person,
fiscal capacity and effort, and data on the level of provision and needs for infrastructure. The forecasting of regional employment balances is of special importance here to indicate those regions needing Community help. The examination and assessment of the situation in each region should be undertaken within the framework of a comprehensive analysis of the Community's economic situation and of the general economic policy measures which it requires.
18. On the basis of this work as a whole, the Commission will present to the Council a draft report on the social and economic development of the regions of the Community every two years , starting in 1979 « This report
is intended to indicate the principal regional problems at the Community level, to assess the results achieved "by the joint actions of the Member States and the Community against these problems and show the conditions for an effective co-ordination of the regional policies of the Member States. These regional problems being a Community responsib­ ility, it is desirable that it should be discussed by the Council at regular intervals.
The Council, after consulting the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee, would approvethe report and fix the priority objectives of regional development to pursue at Community level and, following from that, guidelines for national and Community regional policies .
19* The procedure for examining the report should follow that provided for in Article 4 of the Council decision of 18 February 1974 on the attain­ ment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of Member States of the EEC. To this end, the draft report will be accompanied
by opinions of the Economic Policy and the Regional Policy Committees so as to guarantee consistency between economic and regional policy
20. This analytical and conceptual work should be extended to cover also the effectiveness of the means and instruments used so as to build up a coherent system for assessing results. This is a complicated problem which can only be solved by stages, and by taking account of the findings of studies undertaken and experience gained within the Community.
To this end, the Regional Policy Committee will continue to study these problems concentrating on the effectiveness of disincentive measures, the evaluation of direct regional aids and on preparing a method for assessing results. This work should be completed and available before the end of 1979 so that the Commission and the Council, when considering the two- yearly report on regional trends in the Community, can establish guide­ lines for regional policy.
(l) Draft modified decisions attached in Annex I.
B. Regional impact assessment of Community policies ( R.I.A. )
21* The Commission believes it indispensable that from now on th^/dimension
"be assessed and taken into account in the formulation and implementation of the major Community policies. This will permit the framing of the policies with proper regard to their regional impaot and,if need he, the adoption of any measures required to ensure that these policies take full effect and that any adverse regional effects are corrected.
22. To this end, the establishment of a comprehensive system of analysis and assessment of regional economies should be supplemented by the systematic assessment of the regional consequences of Community policies, whenever significant new measures are contemplated. It should be noted that this overall approach entails the communication to the Commission of accurate sectoral and regional statistical data.
23. In preparing its proposals for the implementation of major Community policies, the Commission will consider their regional implications.
Among the regional implications, the Commission will give special consideration to the impact on employment, though not neglecting other factors characteristic of regional differenc® such as productivity, earned income and migration.
24* This will establish a systematic link between Community policies and regional problems. The harmonious development of economic activity
over the whole Community territory also requires the co-ordination of the various Community policies and financial instruments, and correspond­ ing co-ordination of the policies of Member States.
C. Co-ordination of national regional policies
25 . The two-yearly report on Community regional development , and the aims and guidelines fixed "by the Council,will form the "basis for periodical comparison of regional problems in the different Member States and of national regional policies.
26. This comparison, which is also the first stage of a coordination process, must cover national regional policies and take account of the various structural measures with a regional impact, infrastructure projects with direot or indirect regional consequences and financial transfers "between
convergence, must in due course allow an improved regional allocation
of resources.
In this connection , regional development programmes are a particularly important instrument^^ : they should specify the requirements, aims and
priorities of each region and the means necessary and available to
achieve them. Their examination at Community level will make it possible to take into account the guidelines and priority aims set by the Council, after considering the two–yearly report , and the other Community policies . It is clear that coordination can be oompletely fruitful only to the extent thatthe guidelines and aims have themselves been laid down with some precision . In so far as these programmes concern frontier regions , co-ordinating infrastructure projects will be a priority task.
Member States will specify the use of resources received from the Regional Fund, but it is at the level of these programmes that the complementary nature of Community action and that of the Member States
will be ensured, thus guaranteeing a speeding up of the overall regional development effort .
( l ) Under Article 6 of the present EREF Regulation , development pro­ grammes for regions the Fund assists must be notified to the Commission by the end of 1977*
regions within a State. It must take account of such systems
aid that the Commission considers called for under Article 92
Treaty . This coordination , to "be achieved gradually "but with
of regional of the EEC increasing
28. Studies are at present in progress on the scope for coordinating dis­ incentive measures. The Regional Policy Committee has been asked to report on this subject to the Commission and the Council by the end of 1979 .
29. Such measures are already in force in some Member States. However, to be effective both at national and Community level, the limitation
sought on economic concentration must be accompanied by expansion in the development and reconversion regions. This cannot happen so long as a firm prevented from investing in one Community region has no difficulty in investing in another similarly congested region of the Community where disincentive measures are not applied.
30. Disincentive measures co-ordinated at Community level will, especially in a later period of rising investment, be able to make an effective contribution to a new distribution of human activity throughout the Community in the perspective of European land use planning.
31. Moreover, the Commission, under the powers it holds pursuant to Articles 92 and those following of the EEC Treaty is at present reviewing the system for coordinating regional aids which it had established in 1975* In assessing these aids, the Commission will see that a balance is
ensured between regional development considerations and the need to maintain competition. In so doing, it will contribute to the harmonious development of economic activities throughout the Community.
the Commission shares the wish recorded by the European Parlia­
D. The Régional Policy Committee
32. The various measures presented in this communication should, when
applied, confirm and strengthen the role of the Regional Policy Committee.
Consultation of the Committee on the draft two–yearly report prepared "by the Commission, "before its presentation to the Council, under the pro­ cedures mentioned above, will highlight one of the tasks
conferred to it by its mandate, to study the development of the economic and social situation in the different regions of the Community.
33. The Regional Policy Committee will "be informed of the conclusions of the main reports analysing the regional impact of Community policies : this will enable it to make a more detailed study of the implications of the geographical dimension of these policies.
34. The conclusions to be drawn by the Committee from its examination of disincentive measures, of the evolution of direct regional aids and the development of a method for assessing results will contribute directly to the elaboration of measures to be adopted in these
its resolution of 21 April 1977 "to see the regions concerned and their representatives associated with the preparation of Community regional policy. They are already involved in its implementation at the level of the realisation of investments. The Council Decision setting up the Regional Policy Committee^^ and its rules of procedure also provides expressly for this possibility^^.
(1) OJ No. 73 of 21 March 1975
(2; OJ No. L 320 of 11 December 1975
(3) Article 5 of the Decision provides that the Committee may, in acc­ ordance with its rules of procedure, take cognisance of the views of interested parties from the regions and from trade union and business organisations. Article 5(2) of the Rules of Procedure states "When items on the agenda are of concern to particular regions, the Committee, if members appointed by the Member State concerned think it useful to do so, may take evidence, either orally or in writing, from institutional representatives or from other interested parties from the regions concerned ".
E. Strengthening and diversifying the financial instruments of Community regional policy
a) The European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)
36. By deploying the resources mentioned above, the Commission will he able to exert a substantial influence on the development of the regions in
the Community. Among these instruments the EREF has a special place.
The proposals of the Commission in this respect, as enclosed in Annex II, show the Commission's desire to make these instruments of regional policy more efficient and more relevant. In the view of the Commission, Fund assistance should "be available "both to support the regional development measures of the Member States and for specific actions in order to take account of the regional effects of existing and future Community policies. This dual role would involve dividing EREF resources into
two sections t a quota section – the larger one – to which national quotas would apply, would be intended to finance general support measures and a non-quota section to finance specific aotions.
37* Through its support of the regional development measures of Member States the EREF is intended to ensure that resources are transferred to the
Community's priority regions, in order to speed up their development and reconversion by helping to finance priority projects or groups of projects within regional development programmes.
In the specific actions, the Community will be expressing its own res~ ponsibility for correcting regional imbalances. These actions are primarily regional policy measures intended to supplement or to strength­
en the application of other Community policies ,or to correct any adverse regional effects they may have. The geographical scope of these actions depends on the location of the industries at which Community policies are directed and the relative intensity of regional problems. Consequently there are no grounds for an a priori distribution between Member States of EREF resources available for this purpose.
(i) The problems
38. These two types of action by the ERDF – general support and specific – are intended to cope with four types of regional problems at present facing the Community :
– the under-development of a number of regions, which, despite sus­ tained efforts, still lag well behind and which will require massive Community aid for a long time to come;
– the industrial or agricultural changes, which have appeared in the last quarter of a century in numerous regions of the Community, require measures of development and reconversion to which the Comm­ unity must contribute, but certainly for a shorter time and in a less intensive way;
– the current or expected problems caused in some regions by the change in world economic structures or by existing or future Community policies and calling for a Community contribution each time the effects rfeach a certain scale;
– the special problems of frontier regions. (ii) Location of the problems
39* The first type of problem concerns the Mezzogiorno, Ireland, Northern Ireland , Greenland and the French overseas departments . Taken together , these regions have 26 million inhabitants and to date have received 55$ of ERDF assistance. These are the regions of the Community lagging furthest behind ; geographically they are located on the Community 's periphery, which is an additional obstacle to their integration.
Community assistance is the more justified since , in some cases , the Member States concerned do not have the financial capacity to solve this problem from their own resources.
The task of the Community is lorg term in this first category of region and consists mainly in accelerating their development, to give the region an economic base, both in the form of infrastructure and of a product­ ive system which will enable them to become more competitive and to integrate into the Community. Moreover, as the European Parliament
has stressed, the Community ought to be in a position to assist those regions in the provision of social infrastructure, education and vocat­ ional training, in so far as these contribute directly to regional dev­ elopment, since the high cost and lack of immediate return is a heavy charge on the Member States concerned.
40. The second type of problem concerns regions, which have experienced development and conversion problems for many years due to structural changes in both the industrial and agricultural sectors, and where the problems, because of serious underemployment, are so substantial that they affect the proper functioning of the Community. In this case the Community contribution is to support and intensify development efforts
in agricultural regions and the adaptations needed in industrial regions, particularly by influencing the flow of investment.
These regions, and those described in the preceding paragraph, correspond largely to the priority regions and areas eligible for Fund assistance under the present regulation.
41. The third type of problem is found in regions whose problems are intensi­ fied by the changes in world economic structures or by the implementat­ ion of certain Community policies. The actual or estimated regional impact of these changes or policies can be assessed particularly by
means of the RIAs. The Community must act in those regions – provided the Member State concerned does likewise – through Community regional policy, either by supplementary measures to facilitate the application of these policies, or by measures to correct any adverse effects when­
ever the consequences are such as to affect the proper functioning of the Community.
42. The fourth type of problem is located in Community frontier regions} they generally feel the effects of integration most acutely and so problems of development or conversion often arise.
(iii) lypes of financial assistance
43. The seriousness of underdevelopment in regions facing the first type of problem requires prolonged financial assistance from the Community. The resources available here would fall within the quota section of the ERBF. In each country concerned these regions should receive annually from this source , a contribution at least equal , in real value , to the contribution reserved for it in the previous year.
44* The same guarantee should apply to the regions facing the second type of problem, it being understood that the situation of those regions will be the subject of periodical examination within the framework of the two- yearly report (cf. 18). If it should appear that the problems of one of these regions are no longer on such a scale as to affect the proper functioning of the Community, and in particular that the region no longer has a grave shortage of employment, it will no longefr receive a guarantee
of ERDP assistance. It may, if the need arises, receive an ERDF contri­ bution under its specific actions.
45* ERBF assistance directly linked to the changes in world economic struct­ ures or to the application of certain existing or future Community
policies would come from the non-quota section. An a priori dis­ tribution of the resources available between Member States is excluded
as all regions of the Community may be affected by these problems. Indeed, the nature, location and size of this type of regional problem
depends on the policy concerned, on the type of measure envisaged and on the general economic situation at the time the policy is applied. As Community policies gradually develop,these specific actions will become a more and more important part of all the EREF's actions.
46. As for the frontier regions, there is also no reason to provide for an a priori distribution of Fund resources since, in view of the nature of the problems, there are no grounds for such a system. Assistance from the Fund, therefore, would come from the non-quota section.
(iv) Use of the appropriate financial instruments
47. To ensure that it has the maximum impact, the EREF will, however, have to
concentrate its efforts on the most acute regional problems; to this end, priorities will have to be determined progressively at the level of each region in a precise way, following in particular the analysis and assess­ ment of the social and economic situation of the regions.
At the Bame time, the Fund should tailor the assistance it provides to the nature and gravity of the problems to be solved. Thus Community ass­ istance for regional development purposes will take the form of grants, or loans and guarantees, or, if necessary, an appropriate combination of these. To this end, provision has been made for introducing within the
ERKP a scheme for interest rebates.on Community loans (ETB,ECSC,EEC). Moreover the Commission is examining the scope for helping solve the problems of risk capital.firms face, using existing national regional developmentagencies.asintermediaries. Thesenewinstrumentswillmainly
concern small and medium-sized enterprises.
In addition, the rate of Community participation will vary, the highest rates being reserved for the regions lagging furthest behind. On-lent loans will be available in all the regions eligiblei for EREF assistance but the interest rate rebate will vary with the type of problem to be solved.
48. EHDF assistance is for both investment in infrastructure which can con­ tribute to regional economic development and to improving the quality of life of the population concerned and investments which are directly productive,bothinthemanufacturingandservicesectors. Forthe services sector, it is planned to calculate EREF assistance on the basis not only of investment expenditure but equally of jobs created. Event­ ually the right balance should be found between aid for infrastructure investment and aid for investment that creates jobs directly.
In order to play an effective role in solving the different types of regional problem, the Community will finance priority projects or groups of projects which contribute most to development or reconversion; these priorities will be set by region on the basis of regional development programmes and in the light of Community aims and rules.
49. Two distinct categories of region correspond to the first two types of problem mentioned above* The third and fourth types of problem may
occur outside these two categories of region, "but in most cases will "be located inside them .
Consequently, one and the same area may "be faced with either an under>- development or a reconversion problem, and on each of these may he superimposed problems arising from changes in the structure of the world economy, the application of Community policies and the area's frontier situation. To each of these problems there is a corresponding ERDF action – support or specific measures – which by their combined effects will help to solve the different types of problems facing the area. Therefore, certain regions or areas of the Community will qualify for ERDF assistance from both the quota and the non-quota sections. In such cases the principles governing coordination of regional aids must be complied with.
50. The basis for using the resources of the non–quota section of the ERDF will be the gravity, scale and urgency of the regional problems which threaten to appear or worsen, as the structure of the world economy changes or Community policies are applied.
The use of all ERDF resources – quota and non-quota sections – must be directed towards the harmonious development of econom­ ic activities in the Community.
Because of their financial implications,these proposals could give rise to a consultation between the European Parliament and the Council with the assistance of the Commission, following the procedure provided for in the "Common Declaration" of these three institutions of 4th March 1975*
("b) The possible use of loans
51, The Bcale and diversity of the regional problems facing the Community and the Member States will require considerable financial resources for several years. In view of the Community's budgetary limitations, a substantial increase in resources for Community regional policy, one
in proportion to its objectives, seems unlikely.
52. As part of its work on the employment of loans to finance investment, the Commission will soon submit its views on the possibilities of using these resources for regional policy, such as it is defined in the present document.
53. The regional information campaign, already undertaken within the frame­ work of Commission information policy and concerning in particular the ERDF, is aimed principally at the general public; it will be continued.
54. In addition, the outcome of Community regional studies will "be public- ised more systematically. Moreover, regional studies jointly financed
"by the Commission and Member States can provide technical assistance for the regions. In particular they are relevant to the preparation of regional development programmes and the co-ordinated use of the financial instruments of the Community and the Member States.
55. For the benefit of potential investors and those responsible for regional
the Commission will prepare a publication setting out,
an agreed outline, the aid systems and other benefits
the different member countries. The Commission will spell
according to
out the priorities and the instruments of Community regional policy. This publication will be brought up to date periodically.
56. Community regional policy is a permanent task. Therefore
it is a process of change, which implies continual redefinition of its
aims and stages, both in the Member States and at Community level. The guidelines elaborated in this communication should govern activity in the coming years.
These governing principles concern a wide range of regional problems
whicl* in different ways affect the whole of the Community's territory. Their main purpose is to reduce existing regional inequalities and to
anticipate the emergence of new problems linked to the changing structure of the Community's economy.
57* The changes forecast within the Community call for the introduction of a development strategy which will introduce into all Community policies
the spatial dimension of the problems to be solved. Regional policy will contribute in this way to ensuring consistency of policies and measures across the whole range of Community economic activity. To carry out its responsibilities with respect to the past and the future,the Community must equip itself with adequate tools of analysis and assessment and means of action which are suited to the nature and extent of the regional problems to be solved. These responsibilities will lead to a strength­
ening of regional policies in each Member State, greater oo-ordination of these, and the development of the Community's own activities.
58. The size of this task requires a body able to identify regional problems in all their aspects and to indicate the guidelines for co-ordinated joint action by the Member States and the Community. The Commission
considers that a consultation between the institutions of the Community, the Member States, the social partners and the regional and local
representatives is necessary. It will make proposals on this at the moment of the Council's discussions on the basis of the present document .
59 • The financial resources of Community regional policy must therefore "be coordinated so as to support both national efforts and the Community^ own activity. This double requirement implies the development of fin­ ancial resources, in particular by a suitable policy on loans, and the specification in the budget of whether resources are used as support for national efforts or for the Community's own measures.
6D . The Community will be confronted in the near future by the problems of enlargement. An overall examination of the situation must be made in order to assess the nature and extent of these problems. In this regional policy , among others , should be given its proper weight . Community regional policy as defined in this paper should enable all
the countries concerned to work out the solutions needed. In this
respect, the drawing up of general guidelines for the Community in the field of regional policy is an essential step in preparing the Community of tomorrow.
PROPOSAL FOR COUNCIL DECISION of AMENDING COUNCIL DECISION
- 74/120/EEC of 18 February 1974
on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the Member States of the European Economic Community and
- 75/185/EEC of 18 March 1975
setting up a Régional Policy Committee
Under Article 2 paragraph 2 of the Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 of the
1975 (l)i establishing a European Regional Commission is required to make in due time
for the Community 's regional policy , at the moment of this Regulation to "be made before 1st January
Council of 18th March
Development Fund, the
of the re-examination
1978* These proposals are set out in "Guidelines for Community Regional Policy" which the Commission submits to the Council.
In these guidelines it is planned that the Commission submit to the Council a draft report on social and economic trends in the regions of the Community every two years , beginning in 1979 * After this the Council will, sifter receiving proposals from the Commission, set the priority objectives of regional development to pursue at Community level, and the resulting guidelines for national and Community regional policies.
This procedure should be inserted in that for the annual report on the economic situation in the Community provided for in the decision of the Council (EEC/l20/74) of 10th February 1974 on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the Member States of the Community ( 2 ). This provides for the previous consultation of the
European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee. In addition, the draft of the two-yearly report prepared by the Commission should be accompanied by the opinion of the Regional Policy Committee which has been given , among other responsibilities , that of examining problems relating to regional development, the progress made or to be made towards them and regional policy measures necessary to further the achievement of the Community 's regional objectives . The aim of the present proposal for a decision is to specify the procedure to follow in this matter.
(1) O.J. No. L 73 of 21st March 1979 (2) O.J. No. L 63 of 5th March 1974
of 18 February 1974 on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the Member States of the European Economic Community and
75/185/EEC of 18 March 1975
setting up a Régional Policy Committee
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 145 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas the Council, on a proposal from the Commission, should adopt every two years, on the basis of a biennial report on social and economic trends in the regions of the Community, the guidelines to be followed by each Member State and by the Community in their regional policies;
Whereas this procedure should be included in that already laid down in Council Decision 74/l20/EEC of 18 February 1974 on the attainment of a
high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the Member States of the European Economic Community^^f
Whereas the opinion of the Regional Policy Committee should be sought on the preliminary draft of the report prepared by the Commission,
There is hereby added after Article 4 of Decision 74/120/EEC the following Article 4a:
Once every two years, starting in 1979 on "the occasion of the third examination referred to in Article 4, the Council, on a proposal from the Commission and after consulting the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee, shall approve a "biennial report on the social and economic trends in the regions of the Community and shall adopt the guidelines to "be followed by each Member State and by the Community in their regional policies for the following two years."
There is hereby added to Article 2 of Decision 75/l85/EEC^' the following paragraph 3:
"3. Every two years, the Committee shall deliver an opinion on the preliminary draft of the report on social and economic trends in the regions of the Community, prepared by the Commission, which shall accom­ pany the draft report submitted by the Commission to the Council in accordance with the procedure in Council Decision 74/l20/EEC of
18 February 1974 on the attainment of a high degree of convergence of the economic policies of the Member States of the European Economic Community ."
For the Council, The President
No of
The European Regional Development Fund / hereinafter referred to as
"the Fund"/ was established by Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 of the Council of 18 March 1975 1 ) . Article 18 of that Regulation provides for its review by the Council/ on a proposal from the Commission/ before 1 January 1978 .
Accordingly/ The Commission is submitting to the Council a proposal
for amendments to the Fund Regulation which/ on the bais of the experi­ ence gained in the last two years/ are designed to enable this finan­
of the kinds
cial Instrument to be adapted to the new requirements of regional policy defined in the "Guidelines for Community Policy" contained in the Commission Communication to the
The main proposed amendments concern the differentiation
of assistance provided by the Fund/ the rules governing this assis­ tance and the procedural rules. They concern the following Articles of the regulation :
- the definition of two main classes of measure eligible for Fund assistance/ namely Community measures to support regional policy measures adopted by the Member States/ and specific Community regional development measures (Article 2);
- procedure for fixing the appropriations to the Fund (Article 2);
- the definition of types of infrastructure eligible for Fund assistance (Article 4);
- the flexibility of rates of contribution from the Fund in respect of infrastructure investment (Article 4);
- the simplification of procedures for granting contributions from the Fund for small projects (Article 5);
- the adaptation of procedures relating to regional development programmes/ annual information and statistical summaries (Article 6);
- accelerated payments from the Fund (Article 8);
- the adoption of new rules concerning the timing of payments
qualifying for Fund support (Article 11); ./. .1) OJ No. L 93 of 21.3.1975
the Community Regional Council .
- the definition of the framework of new specific Community regional development measures (Article 13);
- new arrangements for financing studies (Article 13);
- the detailed rules governing the principle of complementarity (Article 18).
Definition of the two main types of measure qualifying for Fund support (Article 2)
3. In accordance with the guidelines set out in Chapter III, E (points 37 et seq ) of the Commission 's Communication to the Council , the Fund will now provide support :
- firstly, for measures supporting regional policy measures adopted by the Member States. This section is subject to a distribution of appropriations on the basis of pre-established national quotas;
- secondly, to assist specific regional development measures under a section not involving national quotas .
This distinction is introduced by Article 2; the two classes of measure are covered by Titles II and III respectively of the Regula­ tion .
Procedure for fixing the appropriations to the Fund (Article 2)
4. The amount of the appropriations to the Fund for the period 1975/77 is fixed by Article 2(1) at 1,300 million EUA.
From 1978 onwards, the normal budgetary procedure will apply to fixing of the appropriations to the Fund, i.e. that the annual appropriations for the Fund should be fixed each year when the general budget of the European Communities is adopted.
In this connection, it should be recalled that in 1975 Parliament and the Council agreed that Fund expenditure after 1977 would rank as non- obligatory .
Definition of the nature of infrastructure eligible for Fund assis­ tance (Article 4(1)(b)
Article 4(1)(b ) of the Fund Regulation stipulates that only infrastruc­ ture Investments directly linked with the development of industrial, artisan or service activities qualify for Fund support. An interpre­ tative declaration recorded in the minutes of the meeting of the Council of 18 March 1975 adds, however, that, exceptionally, the Fund may also take part in the financing of infrastructure which constitutes a prerequisite for action to develop such activities.
Experience gained during the first two years of operation of the Fund has shown, firstly, that the concepts of infrastructure "directly linked" or "constituting a prerequisite" were not always easy to define, involving possible differences of interpretation between the Commission and the Member States , and , secondly , that the basic infrastructure equipment needs of the various regions of the Community were not compa­ rable and varied widely from one region to another.
Accordingly, the Commission is proposing, to enable the Fund's support to be tailored more closely to the varying needs of the regions, that more flexibility should be introduced into the definition of eligible infrastructure . For this purpose , it is suggested that the concept of infrastructure "directly linked" to the development of productive activities should be replaced by that of infrastructure "which contri­ butes to the development of the region in which it is located".
The regional development programmes can be referred to in order to assess , for each region , which are these types of infrastructure .
Flexibility of rates of contribution from the Fund in respect of infrastructure investment (Article 4(2)(b )
Fund participation in the financing of Infrastructure investment is fixed by Article 4(2)(b) of the Fund Regulation at 30% for projects costing less than 10 million EUA, and between 10 and 30% for projects costing more than 10 million EUA.
8. These rates may be varied downwards but not exceeded. Thus it is difficult under present arrangements, to make Community support measures really selective and ensure that they constitute proper- . ,
Incentives to infrastructure investment which is particularly necessary for the economic development of certain regions/ and the execution of which is liable to be hampered or delayed by shortage of funds.
9. Accordingly/ the Commission is proposing that it should be stipulated/ in the Regulation/ that the rate of Fund participation in the financing of Infrastructure projects of special relevance to the development of
the region 1n which they are located may be as much as 50%. This facility would be confined to Greenland/ the overseas French depart­ ments/ Ireland/ the Mezzogiorno and Northern Ireland/ these being the Community regions having the most serious structural difficulties to contend with.
Simplification of the procedures for granting Fund assistance for small projects (Article 5(2)
10. The present arrangements stipulate that the contributions form the Fund must be approved by the Commission on the basis of a set of criteria enabling the Commission to assess the relevance of the projects to be financed to the development of the region in which they are located/ after the Fund Committee has been consulted.
Projects costing less than 10 million EUA are covered by global deci­ sions and projects costing more than 10 million EUA are the subject of Individual decisions.
11. Experience gained during the first two years of operation of the Fund has led to the following conclusions :
- hardly any of the small projects/ whether industrial or infrastruc­ ture projects/ have raised any particular difficulties for the Fund Committee ;
- the 10 million EUA threshold above which projects may be the subject of detailed examination is too high for certain regions which do not have the potential to justify the location or the execution of very
- the preparation of draft decisions to go to the Committee (488 deci­ sions 1n two years concerning 2 728 projects) Involves a heavy
administrative burden which the Commission has had great difficulty 1n discharging. .7.
The Commission takes the view / in these circumstances / that there is a case for simplifying procedures for granting Fund assistance, which would facilitate the work of both the national departments and its own staff, while enabling at the same time the usefulness of the projects financed by the Fund to be assessed more accurately.
For this purpose it is proposing :
- that the threshold beyond which projects are examined and are the subject of a case-by-case decision should be lowered from 10 million EUA to 5 million EUA;
- that only draft decisions relating to investments of more than 5 million EUA should go to the Fund Committee for an opinion;
- that only follow-up information should go to the Fund Committee on decisions for assistance relating to investments of less than 5 million EUA. However/ the Committee would still have to be consul­ ted in respect of drafts proposing negative decisions/ whenever the Member State concerned so requested/ and for any draft decision
in respect of which the Commission feels that a Committee opinion would be useful .
Using this procedure would have cut from 488 to about 200 the number of draft decisions laid before the Fund Committee in 1975 and 1976.
Adaptation of procedures relating to regional development programmes, annual information/ and statistical summaries (Article 6)
13. The amendments to the Fund Regulation proposed by the Commission are designed to :
(a) adapt the text of Article 6 to the fact that the Commission will normally dispose of the programmes by the end of 1977;
(b) enable the Commission to be informed/ early in the year, of the priorities selected by the Member States in respect of the imple­ mentation of the programmes/ and more specifically of their budgetary commitments. This is necessitated by the fact that the programmes generally concern periods varying between three and five years/ and not all the Member States update the multi-year programmes annually. The annual information requirement is there­
fore retained/ but its content is adapted to this specific up­ dating function;
Cc) give the text concerning the statistical summaries a more specific content, and to postpone the date of 1 April to 30 June, since
certain Member States have had difficulty in complying with the original deadline.
Acceleration of Fund payments ( Article 8(3 ) )
14. An essential aspect of the effectiveness of the Fund's contribution to regional development is that its payments should be made promptly. The timing of payments depends, however, on that of the payment of the na­ tional aids which have been the basis of the calculation of the Fund's support, and these are disbursed only as and when each part of the work is completed. The emphasis which the Commission has on several occa- sions placed on the need to finance new projects 1 ) is liable , in these circumstances, to slow down transfers to backward regions.
The Commission is therefore proposing that , in certain circumstances , a scheme for advance payments should be introduced which would ensure a regular and prompt flow of funds to the qualifying regions.
Adoption of new rules concerning the date after which payments quali­ fying for Fund support must have been made (Article 11)
16. The Fund Regulation stipulates that all payments after 1 January 1975 may be referred to for the purpose of Fund support.
17. These arrangements mean that the Fund may provide support for relative­ ly old projects, even projects which have been completed by that date. The Commission feels that while this facility could be justified when
the Fund was starting up, at the time when the effective working of financial transfers to the backward regions had to be got under way, this is now no longer the case: the Fund can act as a genuine incen­ tive for the creation of new investment and therefore new jobs only insofar as its assistance concerns projects for which the bulk of the work has still to be carried out at the time when the application for assistance goes to the Commission.
./. 1) For example, in the Fund's annual reports for 1975 and 1976.
With a view to this objective, the Commission proposes that only payments made by Member States after the date of submission of the ammocation for assistance should be referred to for the purposes of Fund support, and concerning Investments that have not been completed on that date .
Definition of the framework of new specific regional development measures (Article 12)
18. The new specific Community regional development measures which the Fund will be supporting must enable the Community to provide the dri­ ving force to forestall the regional imbalances liable to occur as a result of changes supervening in world economic structures or of
measures taken by the Community under its policies.
For this purpose, Article 13 gives a list, which is not exhaustive, of the types of measure which the Community could undertake, these being mainly measures to back up or strengthen other Community policies, or measures made necessary by changes in world economic structures.
19. The procedures for the implementation of the specific measures would be adopted case by case by the Council, on the proposals from the Commis­ sion , Parliament having been consulted .
New arrangements for financing studies
20. The Commission proposes to modify the existing arrangements to permit it to take the initiative with studies that are in close relation with
the operations of the Fund. It is foreseen that the Fund could finance up to 100% of these studies and that the Regional Policy Committee be consulted in each case .
Arrangements for implementing the principle of complementarity (Article 18)
21. The eleventh recital of the Fund Regulation states that :
"Whereas the Fund's assistance should not lead Member States to reduce their own regional development efforts but should complement these efforts ."
22. The Commission has emphasised on several occasions the need for compliance with this principle/ which is fundamental if the Fund's support is to make any real contribution to the solution of the problem of regional disparities. The principle can be applied in two
ways: in the first place/ the Community's aid can be added for each investment to the aid granted by the national authorities; secondly/ the financial resources deriving from the Fund can be added globally to the Member States' expenditure on regional development/ thus enabling them to speed up and increase their efforts in this field.
23. The first possibility is left to the discretion of the Member States. When they do not use it/ the Commission takes the view that arrange­
ments must be made to ensure supervision of the second; it proposes in this connection (Article 18) that the Member States should show
separately the amounts received from the Fund/ in particular in the national budgets/ and in those of the public agencies/ and that they should submit to the Commission/ at its request/ all relevant infor­ mation to be sufficient to establish that the Fund's resources do in fact have a complementarity character .
Proposal for Council Regulation (EEC) No /77 of ... amending Regulation (EEC) No 724/75 establishing a European Regional Development Fund
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 235 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No 724/75 of 18 March 1975» establishing a European Regional Development Fund^\ created a European Regional
Development Fund intended to correct the principal regional imbalances within the Community;
Whereas Article 18 thereof provides that on a proposal fl>ora the Commission the Council shall re-examine the said Regulation before 1 January 1978;
Whereas, in view of the economic and social trends in the Community in recent years and particularly the economic crisis resulting from the increase in the cost of primary products, it is clear that the assistance provided from the Fund must be diversified to enable it both to provide assistance for Community action in support of regional policy measures taken by the Member States and also to assist specific Community regional development measures, in favour of regions experiencing problems of restructuring and of reconversion ;
Whereas, in particular, it must be possible to extend the geographical scope of Fund assistance to regions or areas other than those established
by the Member States under their regional aid systems;
Whereas the general framework in which these specific Community regional development measures will subsequently be adopted and implemented should be laid down;
Whereas the special characteristics of Greenland, of the French overseas departments, of Ireland, of the Mezzogiorno and of Northern Ireland
justify Fond participation in the financing of infrastructure investments up to a rate of 50$?
Whereas the experience gained in the first three years of operation of the Fund permits the decision-making procedures for Fund assistance to be simplified;
Whereas the provisions relating to regional development programmes, to annual information and to statistical sujiimaries must be adapted to the changes that have taken place;
Whereas an acceleration of the arrangements for payment from the Fund would facilitate the carrying out of the investments benefiting from the Fund ; whereas the introduction , on certain conditions , of a scheme for advance payments to the Member States will enable this objective to be met;
Whereas the detailed rules for ensuring the complementary character of the assistance provided from the Fund should be specified,
Regulation (EEC) No 724/75 is hereby amended as set out in the following Articles*
Article 1 shall read as follows:
"The European Regional Development Fund/ hereinafter referred to as 'the Fund' , 1s Intended to correct the principal regional Imbalances within tne Community". '
Paragraph 1 shall read as follows:
" As from the budgetary year 1978 / the allocation for the Fund shall be determined annually by the budget of the European Communities ".
Paragraph 3 shall become Paragraph 2* Paragraph3 shallreadasfollows:
The following may be financed by the Fund with a view to
contributing to the realisation of the objective referred to 1n Article 1 :
a. Community aotion in support of regional policy measures taken by the Member States/ as provided for In Title II of this Regulation .
The resources of the Fund Intended for financing these acti­ vities shall be distributed in accordance with the following table :
Ireland 6.0%
6.4% Federal Republic of Germany 6.4%
There shall be allocated to Ireland a further sum calculated so as to ensure that it reoeives an extra 0.5$, whioh
shall be deducted from the shares allocated to the other Member States, except Italy. ./.
b. Specific Community regional development measures^ as provided for 1n Title III of this Regulation.
The whole of the Fund's resources or financing these measures shall be used having due regard to the relative Intensity of
regional Imbalances as shown by, 1n particular/ the following Indicators :
the trend of unemployment rates 1n the regions during the preceding five years;
the proportion of the active population occupied 1n agri­ culture ;
the proportionof the active population occupied in declining Industrial sectors;
the migration "balanoe of the regions during the preoeding five years}
the development and the level. of the gross domestic product "
"1. Regions and areas which may benefit from the Fund shall be limited to
those aided areas established by Member States 1n applying their systems of regional aids and in which State aids are granted w1ch qualify for Fund assistance.
2. The Fund may give- assistance as port of the measures referred to Artiole 2(3)(h),. to regions and areas other than those . • referred to in paragraph 1, provided that the Member State concerned
also gives assistance •"
1 . There shail be inserted at -the start of the first sentence of-
paragraph 1 the following words :
 "As part of Community action in support of regional policy measures taken by the Member States , "
In the same sentence the word "European" shall he added before the words "units of account ".
The end of the first sentence of the first sub-paragraph of paragraph l(a ) shall read as follows :
"provided that at least 10 jobs are created or maintained,"
There is added to paragraph 1 (a), a third sub-paragraph as follows: "For the purposes of this Article, a group of investments which are related geographically and financially, and which together
comply with the criteria provided for in this Article, may be considered as a single investment in the field of handicraft or tourism ."
Paragraph 1 (b) shall read as follows:
"b. Investments in infrastructure which contributes to the
development of the region in which it is located, financed wholly or in part by public authorities or by any other agency responsible, on a similar basis as a public autho­ rity , for the creation of infrastructure ."
In the first sub-paragraph of paragraph 2 (a) the word "European" shall be added before the words "units of account " in each case .
There shall be added after the first sub-paragraph of paragraph 2 (a), the following new sub-paragraph:
case of services, by way of derogation from the pre­ sub-paragraph , the Fund 's contribution may exceed 20$ investment cost, provided that the amount does not
in such a case 10 000 European units of account per
"In the
of the
job created or maintained, or 50$ of the national aids."
7. After the first sentence of the second sub-paragraph of paragraph
2 (a), there shall be added the following sentence:
"These aids may include aids paid to undertakings in connection with the transfer of workers ."
8. (Linguistic change not concerning English-language version),
9. In the third sentence of the second sub-paragraph of paragraph 2 (a), the words "of factories" shall read "of "buildings, including plant ."
10. Paragraph 2 (b) shall read as follows:
"b. In respect of investments covered by paragraph 1 (b), 30$ of the expenditure incurred by public authorities when the investment is less than 5 million European units of account and from 10$ to a maximum of 30$ for investments of not less than 5 million European units of account . However, for projects which are of particular interest for the development of the region in Greenland, in the French overseas departments , in Ireland , in the Mezzogiorno and
in Northern Ireland, the maximum rate may be 50$* Article 6
1. In the first sentence of paragraph 1 the words "in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 12" shall be deleted.
2. Paragraph 1 (b) shall read as follows:
"b. the consistency of the investment with the Community regional policy guidelines and priority regional development objectives deriving therefrom , and with any other Community measures ."
Paragraph 1 shall read as follows :
"1. Investments may benefit from the Fund's assistance only if they are part of a regional development programme the implementation of which is likely to contribute to the correction of the main regional imbalances within the Community which may impair the proper working of the Common Market and the converging trend of the Member States' economies, with a view, in particular, to the attainment of economic and monetary union .
3. Paragraph 2 shall read as follows:
"2. a. In respect of investment projects costing more than 5 million European units of account , the Fund 's assistance shall be the subject of a Commission Decision under the procedure provided for in Article 15;
b. For investment projects costing less than 5 million European units of account, the Commission shall inform the Fund Committee of Decisions taken . The procedure provided for in Article 15 shall, however, apply in the case of
- draft negative decisions , where the Member State so requests ;
- all other draft decisions in respect of which the Commission wishes to receive an Opinion from the Fund Committee."
2. Paragraph 2 shall read as follows:
"2. Regional development programmes shall be established according
to the joint outline prepared by the Regional Policy Committee^^•"
3. In paragraph 3, the words "alterations thereto as and when they are drawn up" shall read "alterations made to the programmes already notified".
Paragraph 4 shall read as follows :
The Regional Policy Committee shall be consulted with regard to the programmes. The Commission shall examine these programmes in
the light of the guidelines, priorities and other Community measures referred to 1n Article 5 (1) (b). It shall determine priorities within this framework".
Paragraph 5 shall read as follows:
Before31 January each year, Member States shall bring the
regional development programmes up to date by providing the Commis­ sion with all relevant Information for the current year not con­ tained 1n the programmes on :
(a) tie financial resources allocated to regional development under . their programmes;
(b) the priority measures on regional development which they intend to Implement;
(o) the use they intend to make of Community resources and, in particular, of resources from the Fund, in Implementing these priority measures".
Paragraph 6 shall read as follows :
Before 1 April eaoh year, Member States shall provide the Commission with an overall, statistical summary indicating "by region for the previous year:
(a) the results achieved in the region in terms of investment and employment;
(b) the financial means employed;
(c) the actual use of the resources of the Fund;
(d) the total of investments carried out and of investment aids granted by the central and local authorities, broken down accord­ ing to the main functions of the public authority".
In paragraph 1 the words "in the light of the criteria laid down in Article 5" shall read "in view of the provisions laid down in Articles 5 and 6".
In the first sentence of paragraph 2, the word "10" shall read "5", and the word "European" shall be added "before the words "units of account ".
In paragraph 2 (b), the words "its direct link with the development of the activities referred to in Article 4 (l) (a)" shall read "its contribution to the development of the region".
In the first sentence of paragraph 3, the word "10" shall read "5", and the word "European" shall "be added before the words "units of account " •
In paragraph 3 (b), the words "its direct link with the development of the activities referred to in Article 4 (l) (a)" shall read "its contribution to the development of the region".
In paragraph 5» "the word "10" shall read "5", and the word "European" shall be added before the words "units of account".
Paragraph 1 ( a ) shall read as follows :
- the neune of the undertaking concerned, or for infrastructures,
the name of the responsible authority,
- the location of the investment,
- total public expenditure incurred after the date referred to in Article 11 and that part of the amount for which payment is requested ,
- the amount of payment requested from the Fund, - a forecast of future payment requests;".
for final payment requests, all the Information referred to under (a) except the Last Indent, and
- the amount actually Invested and a description of the invest­ ments concerned,
- the date of completion of the investment,
- the number of jobs created or maintained by the investments referred to 1n Article 4 (1) (a),
- the amounts of public expenditure". 3.Paragraph2 shall"bedeleted*
4. Paragraph 3 shall become paragraph 2* 5. Paragraph 3 shall read as follows:
Advance payments may be granted by the Commission to a Member State at the latter's request. They may not exceed one-third of the total amount of the aid decision, *nd may concern only the expenditure provided for in the first two years following the beginning of the execution of each project for which an advance payment has been applied for. The balance of the aid
from the Fund shall be paid as and when the payments are made ' "by the Member State relating to that part of the Fund 's assist­ ancenot covered by the advance payment".
6. In paragraph 4 the words "or, if necessary, to the European Investment Bank" shall be deleted.
1. In the seoond sub-paragraph of Artiolo 9(l) the words "or, where applicable bj
the European Investment Bank" shall be deleted*
2. In Article 9 (1) there shall be added the following third sub-paragraph: " Member States shall repay to the Commission the amount of the
Fund's assistance that has been paid 1n relation to a national aid that has been repaid by the investor".
3. In Article 9. (2) there shall "be added the following second sub-paragraph: "They shall notify to the Commission those cases referred to in the
first sub-paragraph of paragraph 1".
Article 11 Article l*f< shall become Article 10.
The second paragraph of Article 19 shall beoome Article 11 and shall read
The Commission shall take Into consideration for Fund assistance ' payments made by . Member States after the date on which the request
for assistance 1s received by the Commission, concerning Investments that have not been completed by that date".
The following new Article shall be added after Article 11:
. The Fund may participate 1n financing specific Community regional deve­
lopment measures which 1n whole or 1n part differ from the activities re­ ferred to • 1n Title II and which concern in particular :
a. measures related to other Community policies or complementary thereto, intended to reinforce or to complement the convergent efforts of Community policies to correct structural imbalances 1n the regions, and particularly in the areas referred to in Council Directive 75/268/EEC of 28 April 1975 on mountain and hill farming and farming in certain less-favoured areas1 ) ;
b. measures made necessary by the regional consequences of other Community policies;
c. measures designed to accelerate the creation of jobs 1n the Community's less-developed regions or 1n reconversion regions particularly by facilitating Investors' access to the capital market and the location 1n these regions of Investments originating
outside them;
d. development measures to be undertaken in frontier regions;
e. emergency measures Intended to meet unforeseeable regional situations ".
Without prejudice to the responsibilities of the Commission with regard to State aids under Articles 92 to 94 of the Treaty, the Council acting by qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission/ having con­ sulted the European Parliament, shall determine as necessary for each
specific - Community regional development measure :
the nature of the investments to which the Fund may contribute;
the areas and regions which the Fund may assist}
the national public aids . taken " Into consideration .in granting the Fund's assistance;
the contribution of the Fund :
the categories of beneficiaries for Fund assistance; the detailed rules - for financing ."
Article 10 shall become Artiole 13 and shall read as follows:
"1. The Fund may finance, 1n whole or 1n part, studies in close relation with the activities referred to in Article 2 (3).
These studies shall be undertaken on the Commission's initiative or at the request of one or more Member States.
2. The Fund's assistance shall "be decided "by the Commission according -to the procedure provided for In Article 15 after consulting the Regional Policy Committee.
Article 15 Article 11 shall "become Article 14»
Article 16 Article 12 shall become Article 15*
Article 17 Article 13 shall become Article 16.
Article 17 shall read as follows :
"The. necessary measures for the implementation of this Regulation shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down
The -following new Article 18 shall be added: -
Member States shall adopt all measures necessary to indicate distinctly, according to the special characteristics of their relevant national systems, wore particularly of their national budgets and of the budgets of public bodies, all monies received from the Fund.
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall provide information on the allocation of the amounts received from the Fund;
this shall be sufficient to confirm the complementary character of the Fund".
Article 15 shall become Article 19, and shall read as follows:
"Assistance from the Fund shall not ohange the conditions of compe­
tition 1n a way Incompatible with the principles contained in the relevant provisions of the Treaty, spelled out, in particular,
in the p rinciples co-ordinating the general regional aid schemes .
In particular, the provisions of this Regulation shall not preju-
di ce the application, of Articles. 92 to 94 of the Treaty, particularly
as regards the establishment and re-alignment of regional aid areas referred to in Article 3 and in respect of the amount of the contri­ bution from the Fund."
Article 16 shall beoome Article 20. Paragraph 2 shall beoome the second sub­ paragraph of paragraph. 1 and the following new paragraph 2 shall be added:
"2. The Commission may accompany the recort referred to in paragraph 1, as necessary, with proposals for amending this Regulation"•
The following subdivisions shall be introduced into the Regulation:
"Title I. Preliminary Provisions .
" Title II : Community action in support of regional policy measures
taken by the Member States . Chapter 1: "Field of activity".
"Title III: Specific Community Regional Development Measures".
"Title IV: General and Final Provisions .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Rgulatlon shall be binding In its entirety and directly applicable 1n all Member States .
For the Council
the President
PROPOSAL FOR .COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No of
1. One aim of regional policy is to mobilise a larger volume of capital to develop less forwarded regions and to facilitate the reconversion of areas adversely affected by a decline in employment in certain indus­
2. Under the new Article 12 Cb) and Cc) of the Regulation (EEC) 724/75 the Regional Fund may participate in specific community regional development actions which accelerate the creation of employment by facilitating investors' access to the capital market/ and which are required as a result of the regional effects of other community policies.
This regulation responds to this objective by creating a system of interest rebates for certain EIB and ECSC loans and possibly for other loans granted by the European Communities.
The two principal obstacles to such financing are the exchange risks and high rates of Interest.
3. Experience has shown during recent years that the terms and conditions on which ECSC and EIB loans can be offered have not been sufficiently attractive to provide the necessary stimulus to investors. Consequent­
ly, not only is the effectiveness of these instruments impaired, but the opportunity they afford of transferring capital to the national economies whose regional development and reconversion problems are most acute is thereby seriously constrained.
 At present/ only certain loans from the European Coal and Steel Commu­ nity benefit from interest rebates financed by the Community. These interest rebates are limited by the ECSC budget resources set aside
for this purpose; most of them are granted for reconversion loans under Article 56 of the ECSC Treaty. This proposal will permit interest rebates to be granted on EIB loans in respect of other development and reconversion problems in other sectors and to increase the resources available for rebates on ECSC loans .
The Commission proposes that certain loans granted by the Commission and the EIB should be eligible for interest rebates. The corresponding investments should, create or maintain employment, fall within regions in which the regional fund can be applied and for which regional deve­ lopment programmes have been presented and conform to the other rules and criteria set out in this regulation.
The proposed system would permit interest rebates to be granted on Commission and EIB loans which would, for example :
accelerate the industrial development of the remaining predomi­ nantly agricultural areas of the Community;
help provide alternative activities in localities where an exis­ ting economic activity is declining as a result of the Community's commercial or industrial policies ;
facilitate the reconversion of areas affected by the decline in employment in certain industrial sectors .
The system would create aid to investors borrowing from Community sources in those cases where such assistance is justified either by the gravity of the economic problems or by their origin in other Community policies.
The interest rebates will be granted by the Commission on the basis of regional priorities taking account of the criteria referred to in Article 5 of the regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 as amended. In the case of global loans, the Commission will fix the criteria to be followed by intermediary agencies in granting subsidiary loans.
establishing an interest rebate scheme within the European Regional Development Fund
Having regard to the Treaty instituting the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 724/75 of of
18 March 1975 establishing a European Development Fund1 ) / as amended
Having regard to the proposal of the Commission,
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament ,
Whereas Article 12 thereof provides that the Fund may participate in financing specific Community regional development
measures, and particularly measures designed to accelerate the creation of jobs in the Community's less-developed regions or in reconversion regions by facilitating investors' access to the capital market;
Whereas one of the main obstacles to ... undertakings wishing to take advantage of loans offered by Community institutions nr by the
European Investment Bank is the level of their rate of interest ;
Whereas the establishment of an interest rebate scheme within the European Regional Development Fund may enable undertakings to avail themselves more readily of Community loan opportunities, and may
thus facilitate their expansion;
and in particular Article 12 (2) <c) thereof ,
Whereas these interest rebates may involve either individual loans or loans granted to intermediary agencies with respect to enterprises
Whereas these interest rebates must not, however, exceed certain limits, so as to avoid an undue reduction in the interest rate to be borne by the Investor;
Whereas interest rebates should be granted only on loans intended for the financing of investments meeting the criteria set out in Article 4
(1)(a) of Regulation (EEC) No 724/75. and located in the regionsor1ntheareasreferredtoinArticle3 thereof
provided that such regions or areas have been the subject of regional development programmes and that these programmes have been submitted to the Commission;
Whereas the Commission will decide on the requests for interest rebates on individual loans on the basis of the criteria referred to in Article 5 of Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75 and that it will fix the criteria to be observed the intermediary agencies for granting subsidiary loans;
Whereas it is necessary to simplify the consultation procedure for the Fund Committee;
Whereas, finally, provision must be made for the analogous application of Article 9 of Regulation (EEC) No. 724/75,
global loans made to intermediary agencies
for the purpose of allocating subsidiary loans to finance investments to be carried out by undertakings with total employment of less than 500 people , with net fixed assets employed of less than 30 million Hiropean units of account
and in whose capital structure larger enterprises, other than institutions responsible for contributing to regional develop­ ment by promoting industrial projects, hold no more than a one- thirdparticipation, or
individual loans toundertakings.
Loans from the European Communities or from the European
Investment Bank may receive an interest rebate paid from the European Regional Development Fund. -t Such interest rebates may
be granted in accordance with the rules laid down in this Regulation.
Interest rebates may be granted on:
The maximum rate of the interest rebate shall be 5% per year of the initial capital value of the loan expressed in or converted to European units of account on the basis of the rates published in the Official Journal of the European Communities. It shall apply for the first five years of the loan.
The interest rebate shall not exceed 40$ of the rate of interest on the national long term capital market of the Member State concerned at the time of the application for the rebate *
The interest rebate shall not reduce the rate of interest payable by the investor for the first five years of the loan to less than 4$ taking into account any interest rebates granted by the Member State concerned#
The maximum individual loan or, in the case of a global loan, the maximum subsidiary loan eligible for the interest rebate shall not exceed 50,000 European units of account per job created or maintained, within the meaning of Article 4 of Regulation EEC No 724/75*
Applications for interest rebates shall be made to the Commission by the borrowers either directly or through the European Investment Bank in the case of loans from the latter* The application shall specify the amount of the loan requested, the terms and conditions governing the grant of the loan and all details required to justify and fix the interest rebate*
Applications for global loans shall be accompanied by a description of the intermediary borrower and its activities *
Applications shall be notified by the Commission to the Member State in which the investment is carried out* The Member State shall inform the
Commission of any objections within 30 days*
The Commission shall decide to grant an interest rebate, subject to a decision to grant a loan by the responsible Community body in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 15 of Regulation (EEC) No 724/75,
The Commission may consult the Fund Committee by way of written procedure .
In this case Member States shall inform the Commission of their observations and any objections within 15 days of the date on which the draft deoisions were sent .
At the request of a Member State, the written procedure shall be suspended and a special meeting of the Fond Committee shall be convened within the following 15 days to examine the draft decision in question.
Interest . rebates may be granted on loans intended to finance investments meeting the following conditions:
a. investments carried out in regions or areas referred to in Article 3(l)
of Regulation (EEC) No 724/75» for whioh regional development programmes have been oommunicated to the Commission pursuant to Article 6 thereof.
b. investments conforming to the criteria laid down in Article 4(l)(&) thereof.
The Commission shall decide to grant an interest rebate on individual loans taking account of Artioles 5 and 6 of Regulation (EEC) No 724/75*
The Commission shall indicate from time to time to the European Investment Bank the criteria and priorities that the Commission will take into account in granting rebates on individual loans granted by the Bank.
In the case of global loans the Commission shall lay down the criteria to be observed by the intermediary agencies when granting subsidiary loans.
1. The interest rebate shall be calculated and paid in European units of account.
2. In the case of individual loans, the rebate shall be paid directly to the borrower, at its request when the corresponding interest payments fall due.
Applications for payment shall be accompanied by information as to the amount' and date of the corresponding interest payment and by a certificate to the effect that the loan repayments have been made up to date.
• In the case of global loans, the interest rebate shall be calculated in ' European Units of Account, on the day of signature of the loan contract, on the basis of a rate of interest at 75% of the rate of interest of
the corresponding loan*
The total capitalised amount of the interest rebate shall be paid by
the Commission to the European Investment Bank or, as the case may be, to the ECSC budget on the day of signature of the loan contract .
Every three months the European Investment Bank shall communicate to the Commission each allocation made from a global loan, accompanied by the necessary information to assess the case.
If an open loan account is cancelled or an issued loan is repaid before the
due date, in whole or in part, a sum corresponding to that part of the loan aocount cancelled or to that part of the issued loan repaid, with interest added, capitalized at the same rate as that referred to in the first sub­ paragraph for the period between the date of payment of the total capitalized interest rebate and the date of repayment, shall be remitted to the Commission*
Article 9 of Regulation (EEC) ITo 724/75 shall apply by analogy to the invest­ ments and loans which receive an interest rebate under this Regulation*
The Commission shall inform the recipients of individual loans of the interest rebates granted to them* Recipients of subsidiary loans from global loans shall be informed in their contract with the intermediary agency that the loan conditions are a consequence of Community aid and interest rebates from the European Regional Development Fund*
A list of the loans that have benefitted from interest rebates shall "be
published every sii months in the Official Journal of the European Communities *
The Commission shall report to the Parliament and to the Council on the application of this Regulation in the report provided for in Article 20 of Regulation (EEC) N° 724/75.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States#
For the Council The President .
(l) Régional Impact Assessments RIA
