Incidence financ ière '
règlement , on entend par t
Irish Sugar Company ltd .
l)n c e r t a •: ia j Address of the registered office
U n d e r t a' k í n -z Addv^Bas of tlia regi^^ed office
jjidress of the registered office Adrosse des Sitzes
Address of the règiètered office Adresse des Sitzes
4 L'adresse do cette entreprise dans la région agricole où se trouvent implantées toutes ses usines est i * The adress of this undertaking in the agricultural area in which all the factories are situated is 2
ex T. andere:
Un ce r t-a;c ia s Address of the registered office
Address of the registered office Adresse des Sitzes
+ The adress of this undertaking in the agricultural area an which all the factories are situated is :
Address of the règiètered office Adresse hovedkontarets
Irish Sugar^Company Itd. - . v . \ •* . ~
Address of the registered office
jj)fitrepri3 r*vSie.^eSocial Quotadenaso tre C û'tt e r i a," le i n j Addreya of the r&gis'tovo.l oi/ice i'"> Guota mt
address- of the registered office unternehme AdroasedesSitze3
! Address of the registered office Ε Adresse des Sitzes
4- The aojress of this undertaking in the atTicultural area in which ell tho factories are situated is *
Address of the registered office
Addata of the x-egìatosed office
 jSntreprise Und e r t a k i n g
Address of the registered office Adresse des Sitzes
Address of the registered office AdressedesSitzes
+ The adress of this undertaking in the agricultural area in which all the factories ara situated is J
 douanetarief a) - 17,01
suiker is opgeslagen»
C. witte chocolade D. ander
ex B, andere t
ex V, andere ï
ex Q* andere t
ex B0 andere * .
ex T» andere l
Address of the registered office
Address of the regiatex<ed office
+ The adress of this undertaking in the agricultural area in which ell the factories arfi situated is :
Proposal for a REGULATION (EEC) OP THE COUNCIL
on -the common organization of "the market in sugar
Proposal for a REGULATION ( EEC) OP THE COUNCIL
on the fixing and alteration of the "basic quotes for sugar
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
In essence, this proposal for a Regulation puts into legal form the principles set out "by the Commission in its various communications %o the Council concerning the Community's future sugar policy^, on the one hand, qjrd .the question of the future Convention of Association to the Community of the ACP countries referred to, in particular, in Protocol No 22 to
the Act of Accession2 , on the other » ,
Because of the substantial amendments to the "basic provisions governing the common organization of the market in sugar with regard to the production system and in view of the adoption of a preferential system for sugar imported from the ACP countries in question, it has appeared necessary to reoast the basio Regulation relating to the sugar seo­tor, at
the same time consolidating the numerous amendments still in force
new "basic Regulation that will, in future, take the place of Regulation No 1009/67/EEC^ as last amended "by Regulation (EEC) No 2476/74^* , " . ;
1# The price system as it now exists has not "been fundamentally altered#
2, The trade system includes new provisions requiring manufacturers to ,
hold a minimum stjjck# These provisions, which were the subject of a previous proposal, "have boon retained sinoe the supply situation Requires that measures to this effect be taken#
3# The new production system, which is to apply from 1 July 1975* is based J;
on the principle of guiding production by means of quotas valid for five sugar marketing years# .
The Commission still considers that a system on these lines is -the most • effective means of ensuring, firstly, some measure of production in areas other than those most suited to beet cultivation through the setting of an adequate prioe level for production within basic quotas} secondly development
1Cf. Docs. COM(73) 1177 final of 12 July 1973 and ,SE0(74) 2784 final of 9 July 1974.
2Cf, Docs. CC8VI(73) 500 final" of '4 April 1973' and C®(74) 1060 of 26 -June 1974 ^OJ No 308, 18 December 19^7| P* 1*
 of promotion beyond these basio quotas in areas' most suited to beet cultivation and also, when",QQnditiensnare.,normal, adjustment of Community production to the level of internal sales, taking account of possible
international commitments#
In the light of these objectives, the ^system accordingly provides that basio quotas fehall be calculated by reference to the average annual 'sugar production of 'eaoh undertaking within the Community during .the 1968/69
to 1972/73 marketing years, multiplied by a uniform coefficient of 0#93, except that no undertaking may be allocated a quota lower than its present one. With a view to avoiding, to the greatest extent possible, any discrimination between Community producers, these basic quotas are then
to be fixed for eaoh undertaking by the Council itself#
Further, in line with the measures aimed at promoting specializationj- each undertaking is to be allocated a maximum quota for 1975/76 equal: to the'basid quota multiplied by a coefficient of lo35* which quota may be, adjusted for subsequent marketing years in the light of the trend of . production seen in terms of specialization *and marketing opportunities*' The proposal .for a Council Regulation annexed to that for the basic' ' Regulation provides that the basic quota may also be adjusted up to a
maximum of 10$ to avoid, as far as possible, any restriction' of production at undertaking level and to afford new producers aooess to quotas♦ " .. '
Lastly, in .line with the measures intended to adjust production to
marketing opportunities and taking apoount of possible Community ^ . commitments, besides fixing the maximum quota, the system lays down
speoial provisions applicable to sugar capable 6f being'produced' outside the
quotas# These measures "enable the Community to deal both with a surplus -«.• 1
and a defxoit situation# In the first situation, the requirement and the
ability to' export may be restricted in view of the abovementioned ■
In the., second ( situation, the said sugar may be sold on the Community's internal market and export levies be imposed on exports of it#
The other basic provisions at present in force concerning the^produofion
levy, the double minimum* price for beet, delivery contracts and the v; oarry forward are retained without fundameitfal alteration.
 4# The provisions of Chapter IV of the proposal reflect only the Commissions view at the present stage of the exploratory talks with the A«C«P« countries# The preferential import system covers only the technioal machinery neces­ sary for its operation and does not extend to the political questions relating to sugar which are tho subjeot of negotiation for the new Conven­ tion of Association, namely the guaranteed price and tho quantity which
may be imported#
In the proposal, the Commission, maintaining its opinion that the nego­ tiations on the system for imports of sugar from the developing countries referred to notably in Protocol Ho 22 totthe Aot of Accession cannot be viewed in isolation from existing commitments entered into with these countries , stipulates that the said system can apply only to a maximum quantity of 1 400 000 metric tons of sugar expressed in terns of white sugar for a peciod of 12 months#
To ensure continuity between existing contractual arrangements for sugar imports and those resulting from a new Convention of Association, the proposal provides that the preferential import system shall apply fopn
1 January 1975 and that is shall be valid for the same period as that of the new Convention , namely five years#
The guaranteed price applicable in each year of the new system is to be fixed by the Council following consultations with the supplying countries concerned#
In drawing up the proposed system for preferential imports, acoount has been taken as far as possible of the functionning of the Londen Terminal Market #
The system also entitles producers of this Sugar to offer it at the guaranteed priee to intervention in the Community, to ensure that the imports can be made in all ciroumstances#. This system is completed
by the provisions applicable in the case of faiture by the supplying countries to deliver , which will enable the Community to with the various situations whioh could then arise# Three situation;': ure envisaged * namely a failure of supplies despite sugar bsdng available, a failure
due to lack of sugair and, lastly, a temporary failure which can be regarded as a case of force majeure# To deal with there different situations, the system provides either for a permanent reduction in the "quota" of the supplying country conoemed, allocating the amount of the reduction to the other supplying countries which are able to make deliveries in its place, or for an extension of the delivery period#
5* The general provisions reiterate the existing provisions with the exception of those which "become ineffective on 30 June 1975 or which have lapsedo
The final provisions lay down that the new basic Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities ,that is to say not later than
December 1974 so that, on the one hand, the provisions concerning, firstly, the conditions governing purchasing, delivery, reception of and payment for sugarbeet and the agreements within the trade, the fixing of basic quotas and the maximum quota and, secondly, those conerning the transitional measures come into force at the same time for the 1975/76 marketing year and, on the other hand, that the provisions of Title IV concerning the preferential import system come into force on 1 January 1975«
1» From the financial point of view the proposal presents the same characteristics as those of Regulation Ho IOO9/67/EEC now in force. In this Qonnection it should be noted that there are in operation :
a) a system of production quotas and levies on production, the financial effect of which in this sector is that-the net expenditure is limited, even in the case of world overproduction;
b) a system of levies and repayments in connection with storage costs*
It is also worth noting that the levies in this secto.r, following the deoision of 21 April 19701 remain "ressources propres". Thus the expenditure avssing from the repayments of storage costs end from the provisions for the marketing of the sugar produoed beyond a certain guaranteed quantity will, as under the regime of Regulation IOO9/67/EEC, have their counter­ part in ^these charges ("ressources propres")#
2» As to the other provisions, the following should be noted in relation to Regulation 1009/67/eEC«
a) the introduction into the basic Regulation of a system of preferential
imports of sugar from certain developing oountries , notably those referredtoinProtocol22totheActofAocession, Inrelationto
the present situation the introduction of this system into the basic Regulation would have insignificant financial implications "because the proposed system is meieLy a continuation of the one introduced
vmAtcader Protocol 17 to the Act;
 b)t the introduction of a refining subsidy for DOM sugar. Such a subsidy alredj^ exists under transititional arrangements, and its incorporation in the basic regulation will therefore have negligible financial • implications in relation to the present situation. •
In conclusion, this, recasting of the basic sugar regulation will not change the financial characteristics, of the present sugar system and
is not in itself likely to change significantly the level of expenditure and receipts
the draft Budget )
It should be noted that, on average, the levies and charges rose
during the years in question to. ± no millions ua.
It should also be noted that the reduction in the estimated expenditure . in 1975 is the result of the present supply situation and of the world market price and it therefore bears no relationship to the present proposals . " *
on the common organization of the market in sugar
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 42, 43 and 227 thereof;
Having regard to the Treaty concerning the accession of new Member States to the European Economic Community and to the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Protocol No 22 to the Act"*" annexed thereto, hereinafter
called "the Act";
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission:
Harartg regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament ; ...
Whereas the fundamental provisions concerning the common organization of the market in sugar have been amended several times since that adoption;
whereas these provisions will have to be amended thoroughly again to take account,
in particular, of the forthcoming expiry of the transitional provisions and the system to« be instituted under Protocol No 22 to the Act ;
whereas it is therefore essential to redraft these fundamental provisions;
YJhereas the operation and development of the common market in agricultural products must be accompanied by the establishment of a common agricultural policy to include in particular a common organization of the agricultural
markets, which nay take various forms, depending on the product concerned;
Whereas, to ensure that the necessary guarantees in respect of employment and standards of living are maintained for Community growers of sugar beet and sugar cane, provision should be made for measures to stabilize the sugar
market ; whereas to this end a target price and an intervention price for white sugar should be fixed each year for the Community area having the
 largest surplus; whereas derived intervention prices should be fixed each year forotherCommunityareas, account"beingtakenofregionalpricevariations arising under natural condiions of'price formation on the market vrith a normal harvest and of the processing stagej whereas the objective i-eferred to above could be attained by making provision for buying-in by intervention agencies at the intervention prices; whereas moreover a compensation system for storage costs for sugar produced from raw materials (including molasses) of Community origin could serve the same purpose;
Wheraas it is necessary to ensure that the regulation of the sugar market irfluences sugar beet and sugar cane production; whereas for this reason it is advisable to fix minimum prices which must be respected when sugar manur- facturers buy beet, to lay down, having regard inter alia fornules of competition standard Community provisions "governing contractual relations ,
between buyers and Sellers of beet, and to adopt appropriate provisions to this end for sugar cajie producers;
Whereas the creation of a single Community market for sugar involves, apart from a single price system, the introduction of a common trading system at the external frontiers of the Community; wheraas a trading system including import levies and export refunds, combined with intervention measures also serves to stabilise the Community market, in particular by preventing price fluctuations on the world market from affecting prices ruling within the Community; whereas provision should therefore be made for the charging of a levy on imports from third countries and the payment of a refund on exports to those same countries which would, in either case, cover the difference between prices ruling inside and outside the Community if world market prices are lower than the Community prices ;
Whereas, in addition to the system described above and to the extent necessary for its proper working, provision should bo made for regulating or, when the situation on the market so requires, prohibiting the use of "inward processing arrangements";
Whereas, where a shortage on the world market results in world market prioes being higher than the Community prices, appropriate, provisions should be laid down in order to avoid in good time a situation vrhere regional surpluses are exported to third countries while an abnormal rise in prices in the Community makes it impossible to continue to guarantee supplies to consumers at reasonable
prices; whereas, moreover, the introduction of a system whereby each manufacturer must hold a minimum stock is one of the most effective ways to achieve this objective;
Whereas it must be made possible for the competent authorities to lceep a oonstant watch on trade movements in order to anable them to assess
market trends and where appropriate to apply such provisions of this Regulation as prove necoesaryf whereas to this end provision should be made for a system of import and export licences the issue of which is conditional on the provision of security by way of guarantees that the operation for which the licence is been requested will be carried out ;
Whereas the levy system makes it possible to dispense with all other protective measures at the external frontiers of the Community; whereas, however, the common price and levy machinery may in exceptional circum– stancss prove defeotive; whereas in such oases, so as note to leave the Cocmnriifcy market without defence against distrubances which may price therefrom after the import barriers which existed previously hate been removedj the Community should be enabled to take all necessary measures without delay;
Whereas in recent years production in the Community as originally consti- tued hab been maintained at an acceptable level in relation to consumption; whereas even in those regions which are least suitable for beit cultivation production has remained at levels little short of the basic quotas;
whereas thanks to the existence of a measure of competition, particulary
in respect of sugar produced in excess of the basic quotas , there has been considerable regional specialisation ; whereas , beoause production outside the quotas has been able to develop freely, it has been able to benefit
to some extent from world market prices ; whereas accordingly , subject to oertain adjustments in the ligjit of experience, the system of production quotas should be retained for a specified period; whereas these adjustments should include in particular the allocation by the Community of basic quotas to individual undertakings depending on their production over a reference period which is the same for all undertakings and the introduction of certain rules in respect of sugar produced in excess of the quotas ;
Whereas it is desirable to retain the other basic provisions irihereby the Community guarantees in respect of prices and sales are limited or whitdravra in the case of quantities manufactured over and above the basic quota depending on whether or not they exceed a certain ceiling, and also those
provisions concerning deleivery contracts for sugar beet and su£ar Cane and the-rules of the carry-forward system; ,
Whereas Protocol Ko 22 to the Act provides, in particular, that the Community will have as its firm purpose the safeguarding of the interests of all the countries referred to in that Protocol .whose economies depend to a considerable extent on the export of sugar in particulars whereas this principle is also valid for the countries and territories referred in Asrticle 118 of the Act,
and for India?
Whereas in order to attain this objective a system of preferential imports of
sugar coining from and originating in the countries in question should be intro­ duced, providing guaranteed prices and sales in the Community for each of them in respect of a specified quantity of sugar, in particular by means of purchases by intervention agencies; whereas, in order to make the•system more efficientJ
it is necessary to lay down strict rules in respect of shortfalls in V. \ : deliveries? •" ''
Whereas the establishment of a single market based on a common price system would be jeopardized by the granting of certain aids5 whereas, therefore, the provisions of the Treaty which allow the assessment of aids granted by Member States and the prohibition of those which are incompatible with the common market should be made to apply to sugar?
Whereas Council Regulation No IOO9/67/EEC of 18 December 19^7 established the common organisation of the market in sugar; whereas the transition to the system established by this Regulation must be effected as smoothly as possible; whereas to this end certain transitional measures may prove necessary; whereas the same need may arise at each change-over from one marketing year to the next; whereas provision should therefore be made for the possibility of adopting appropriate measures;
Whereas intervention is essential if the sugar price is to be guaranteed; whereas, in view of the special importance of sugar production for the economy of the French overseas departments , provisions concerning the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund must be made to apply to these depart­ ments ;
 Whereas the common organization of the market in sugar must take appropriate account , at the same time , of the objectives set out in Articles 39 and. 110 of the .Treaty^
Whereas, in order to facilitate implementation of the proposed measures, a procedure should be provided for establishing close cooperation between Member States and the Commission within a Management Committees
The common organization of the market in sugar shall comprise a price and trading system and cover the following products?
:ί ί Beet sugar and cane sugar , solid \
1 >' J Sugar beet, whole or sliced, fresh, dried or powdered; \
Ι ιιI1 ....1'» i' i Molasses, whether or not decolourized !
(d) 17.02 C to F f Other sugars (but not including lactose and glucose); ( ',' f sugar syrups (hut not including lactose syrup and ! • glucose syrup)} artificial honey (wheiher or not mixed !
• with natural honey); caramel {
» Flavoured or coloured sugars ("but not including lactose ! | and glucose syrup) and molasses, hut not including |
fruit juices containing added sugar in any proportion { » Beet-pulp, bagasse and other waste of sugar manufacture J
For the purposes of this Regulation:
"White sugar" means sugar falling within heading No 17.01 of the Common Customs Tariff containing, in the dry state, 99*5% or more by weight of sucrose determined by the polarimetric method;
"Raw sugar'1 means sugar falling within heading Ho 17.01 of the Common Customs Tariff containing, in the dry state , less than 99»5% by weight of sucrose determined by the polarimetric method.
1. A target price for white sugar shall be. fixed each year for the Community area having the largest surplus. This target price shall be valid for vhitc sugar of a standard quality, unpacked, ex-factory, loaded on to the means of trans­ port chosen "by the purchaser.
2. Before 1 August of each year the target price for the marketing year "beginning on 1 July of the following calendar year shall be fixed in accordance with
the procedure laid down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty.
The same procedure shall be followed to determine :
– the standard quality for white sugar and, at the same time as the target price,
- the Community area having the largest surplus.
Community area having the largest surplus.
Derivedinterventionpricesshall"befixedforotherareas,account"being taken of the regional variations which, given a normal harvest and free movement of sugar, might "be expected to occur in the price of sugar under natural conditons of price formation,
Theinterventionpricesreferredtoinparagraphs1and2shallhevalid for white sugar of the standard quality to which the target price applies,
unpacked, ex-factory, loaded into the means of transport chosen "by the purchaser.
TiiederivedinterventionpricesforFrenchoverseasdepartmentsshall, however, be valid for sugar fob and stowed abroad a seagoing vessel at the port of embarkation,
5« Forthesedepartments,interventionpricesforwhitesugarfixedforthose departments, allowance being made for a uniform processing margin and a standard yield.
6. The intervention price for the areas having the largest surplus shall be . fixed at the same tine as the target price in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty,
7, TheCouncil,actingbyaqualifiedmajorityontheproposalfromtheCommission, Lhall determine s
– the standard quality for raw sugar and, before 1 August of each year for the following marketing year,
– the areas referred to in paragraph 2 and the derived intervention prices valid for these areas.
Each year, for each beet-sugar-producing area for vrhich an intervention price
a minimum price for beet shall he fixed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2, 3 and 4J
a minimum price for beet outside the basic quota shall be fixed in accordance with Article 27.
These prices shall apply to a specified delivery stage and a specified standard quality.
When the minimum price for beet is being established, the intervention price for uhite sugar in the area in question and fixed values for the Community representing :
- the processing margin;
- the yiold:
- undertakings * receipts from sales of molasses ; and,
- where appropriate, costs incurred in delivering beet to factories
shall be talcen into' account .
At the same time as the target price is fixed:
- the minimum price for beet referred to in the first indent of paragraph 1
for the Community area having the largest surplus shall be fixed, and
- the delivery stage and standard quality for beet shall be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 43 of the Treaty.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall fix the minimum price for beet referred to in the first indent of para­ graph 1 for other areas at the same time as the derived intervention prices.
Subject to the provisions of Article 28 and provisions adopted pursuant to Article 30(3), sugar manufacturers buying beet which
a) is suitable for processing into sugar, and b) is intended for processing into sugar,
shall be required to pay at least the minimum price for sugar beet, adjusted by price increases or reductions to allow for deviations from the standard quality.
2. Theminimumpricereferredtoinparagraph1shallcorrespond:
a) in respect of beet forprocessing into sugar covered by Article 29(l) (a), to the minumum price of the beet,
b) in respect of beet for processing into sugar covered by Article 29(l) (b), to the minimum price of the beet produced outside the basic quota.
3. DetailedrulesfortheapplicationofthisArticleshallbeadopted,and the price increases and reductions fixed, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article AO.
The Council, acting by a qualified, majority on a proposal from the Commission shall adopt outline provisions dealing in particular vith general conditions governing purchasing, delivery, reception and payment to which agreements within the trade at Community, regional or local level and contracts con­ cluded between "buyers and sellers of "beet must conform.
Conditions for purchasing sugar cane shall be governed by agreements within the trade between cane growers andsugar manufacturers.
Where no agreements within the trade exist, conditions of purchase, and in particular the minimum proportion of the intervention price for cane sugar to be paid by sugar manufacturers to sellers of sugar cane, shall be detsrminod in accordance with tho procedure laid down in Article 40.
Subject to the provisions of Article 30(2), storage costs for white sugar, raw sugar and. certain syrups produced as by-products of solid sugar,
manufactured from beet or cane harvested in the Community, shall be reimbursed at a flat rate by the Member States.
Meiaber States shall charge a levy on each sugar manufacturer:
– per unit of weight of sugar produced, and
- per unit of weight of syrups referred to in the preceding subparagraph
produced and marketed in the natural State.
The amount of the reimbursement shall be the same for the whole Community. The same rule shall apply to the levy.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal form the Commission, shall adopt rules for the application of paragraph "1.
The amount of the reimbursement and the lev;'- shall be fixed each year in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40* Other rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the sane proc3dure.
 Throughout the marketingyear intervention agencies designed by sugar-producing Member States shall "be required, under conditions to be laid down in accordance with paragraphs 5 and- to buy in white sugar and raw sugar offered to them which has been manufactured from beet or cane harvested in the Community.
Intervention agencies shall buy in at the intervention price valid for the area in which the sugar is located at the time of purchase. If the quality of the sugar deviates from the standard quality for which the intervention price was fixed, that price shall be adjusted by means of price increases add reductions .
It may be decidod to grant denaturing premiums for sugar rendered unfit for human consumption.
Should difficulties arise in marketing sugar produced in the French overseas departments , appropriate measures shall be taken.
It aa.y be decided to grant a production refund on the products listed in Article l(l) (a) and the syrups listed in Article 1(1) (d) containing sucrose, used in the manufacture of cortain products of the chemical industry.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall determine :
– general rules for the application of the above paragraphs;
– intervention prices for raw beet sugar}
– the products of the chemical industry referred to in paragraph 4*
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordanc with the procedure laid down in Article 40 and shall deal in particular with :
– the minimum quality and quantity requirements on intervention;
– the scales of price increases and reductions applicable on intervention;
– procedures and conditions for talcing over by intervention agencies;
– conditions for granting denaturing premiums and the amount of such premiums;
– conditions for granting the production refunds and the amount of such refunds.
Intervention agencies may only sell sugar at a price which is higher than the intervention price valid in the zone where the sugar is stored.
However^ i*t may "be decided to authorise intervention agencies to*- sellr-pjjgar at a price ecfual to or less than the intervention price in- question -if:, the sugar is intended :
- for animal feeding, or
- for export to third countries in the natural state of following processing
into the products listed in Annex II to the Treaty or into the goods listed in Annex I to this Regulation.
2. TheCouncil,actingbyaqualifiedmajorityonaproposalfromtheCom­ mission, shall adopt general rules for iho sale of products which have been subject to intervention measures.
3. DetailedrulesfortheapplicationofthisArticleshallbeadoptedin accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40.
Tracte with third countries
Imports or exports into or out of the Community of the products listed in Article l(l) (a), (b), (c) and (d) shall "be made conditional on the sub­ mission of an import or export licence issued by Member States to way applicant irrespective of the place of his establishment in the Community.
Where the levy or refund is fixed in advance, the advance fixing shall be entered on the advance–fixing certificate.
Licences shall be valid for a transaction effected within the Community.
The issue of such licences shall be conditional on the lodging of a deposit guaranteeing that importation or exportation is effected during the period of validity of the licence; this deposit shall be forfeited in whole or in part if the transaction is not effected, or is only partially effected within that period.
The arrangements provided for in this Article may be extended to tho products listed in Article l(l) (e) in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40. The period of validity of licences and other detailed rules for the application of this Article, which may include a time limit for the
issue of licences, shall be adopted in accordance with the same procedure.
1. Eachyeara.CommunitythresholdpriceshallTDQfixedforv,Thitasugar,raw sugar and molasses.
2. Thethresholdpriceforwhitesugarshall"bethesameasthetargetprice for the Community area having the largest surplus transport charges, cal­ culated at a flat rate, from that area to the most distant deficit area in the Community. It shall apply to the saae standard quality as the target price.
3. The threshold price for raw sugar shall he derived from the threshold price
for white sugar, a standard processing margin and a standard yield "being taken into account.
It shall apply to the same standard quality as the intervention prices for raw sugar.
4. Thethresholdpriceform&laasesshallbesofixedthatreceiptsforsale of molasses may reach the level. of undertakings* receipts which are taken into account pursuant to Article 4 when minimum prices for "beet are "being
fixed. It shall apply to a standard quality.
5. TheCouncil,acting"byaqualifiedmajorityonaproposalfromtheCommission, shall fix the threshold prices at the same time as the derived intervention prices.
6. Thestandardqualityformolassesshall"bedeterminedinaccordoncewith the procedure laid down in Article 40.
1. AcifpriceshallbecalculatedforaCommunityfrontiercrossingpointfor whitesugar,rawsugarand.molasses. Thispriceshallbecalculatedonthe basis of the most favourable purchasing opportunities for each product on the world market, based on quotations or prices on that market, corrected to allow for any deviations from the standard quality for which the threshold price is fixed.
2. Wherefreequotationsontheworldmarketarenotadeterminingfactorfor the offer price and where that price is lower than world market prices, a special cif price calculated on the basis of the offer price shall be substituted, solely in respect of the imports in question, for the cif price.
3. TheCouncil,actingbyaqualifiedmajorityonaproposalfromtheCommission, shall determine the frontier crossing point.
4. Detailedrulesforcalculatingthecifpricesshallbeadopted:lin accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40. The corrective amounts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be fixed in accordance with the same procedure.
1. A levy shall be charged on imports of the products listed in Article 1(1) (a), (b), (c) and (d).
2. The levy on white sugar and raw sugar shall be equal to the threshold price less the cif price#
3. Thelevyonrawsugarshall,wherenecessary,beadjustedaccordingtothe;v yield. The levy on white sugar shall ba charged on imports of raw sugar for purposes other than refining if that lovy is higher than the levy applicable to raw sugar. If the levy on white■ sugar is higher than the levy on raw sugar, raw sugar for refining shall be subject to customs control or to an adminis­ trative inspection offering equivalent guarantees.
■4. ThelevyontheproductslistedinArticlel(l)(b)shallbecalculatedat a standard rate on the basis of the sucrose content of each of these pro­ ducts and the levy on white sugar.
For the purpose other than the manufacture of sugar, partial exemption from the import levy may be allowed as a temporary measure in special instances in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article
5. ThelevyontheproductslistedinArticlel(l)(c) and(d)shallbe calculated :
- either on the basis of the sucrose content, (including other sugars
expressed as sucrose) of the product concerned, fixed where appropriate
at a standard rate, and the levy on white sugar, or
– by subtracting the cif price of molasses from their threshold price.
The levies applicable to maple sugar and maple syrup falling within heading Ho 17.02 of the Common Customs Tariff shall, however, be limited to tho amount resulting from application of the duty bound within GATTo
Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including the margins within which variations in the factors used for calculating the levy don not require any alteration of the levy, shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40.
The levies referred to in this Article shall be fixed "by the Commission.
Article 15 Thelevytobechargedshallbethatapplicableonthedayofimportation.
Thelevymay,however,befixedinadvanceforimportsoftheproductslisted in Article l(l) (a) and (c).
In that event the levy applicable on the day on which the application for the licence is lodged, adjusted on the basis of the threshold price in force on the day of importation, shall be applied to imports to be effected during the
validity of the licence, provided the party concerned so requests when applyingforthelicenceandinanycasebefore13hours. Apremiumtobe added to the levy may be fixed at the same time as the levy.
TheCouncil,actingbyaqualifiedmajorityonaproposalfromtheCommission, shall adopt rules for the application of this Article; in particular it shall decide upon the conditions under which advance fixing take place and the rules for fixing premiums.
Wheretheconditionsreferredtoinparagraph3exist,adecisiontoapply the system provided for in paragraph 2 shall be taken in accordance with
the procedure laid down in Article 40. Once these conditions no longer exist, the measure shall be repealed in accordance with the same procedure.
It may be decided in accordance with the same procedure to apply the system provided for in paragraph 2 in whole or in part to each of the products listed in Article l(l) (d).
Detailedrulesfortheadvancefixingshall'Vbeadoptedinaccordancewith the procedure laid down in Article 40.
ThepremiumsshallbefixedbytheCommission.
Whereit'appearsfromanexaminationofthemarketsituationthatdifficulties exist lowing to the application of the provisions concerning the advance fixing of the levy, or if such difficulties are likely to arise, it may be decided, in accordance with the procsdure laid down in Article 40, to sus­ pend the application of those provisions for as long as is strictly necessary.
In cases of extreme emergency the Commission mayj after examining the situation in the light of all the information at its disposal, decide tosuspendadvancefixingfornotmorethanthreeworkingdays. Licence applications coupled with advance fixing which are lodged during the period of suspension shall not be accepted.
1» Where irt appears that in the Community as a whole or in one of its regions the guaranteed supply of sugar at prices "below the threshold price is in jeopardy provision may "be made for an export levy to be charged on sugar*
The levy shall apply when the cif price for white sugar or raw sugar
is hi^ier than the threshold price»
Save as otherwise provided by ihe Council in accordance with the proce­ dure laid down in paragraph 3, the levy to be charged, shall be that applicable on the day of exportation,
2« Where the cif price for white sugar or raw sugar is higher than the threshold price, it may be decided to grant a subsidy on imports of the product in question#
3. The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt rules for the application of paragraphs 1 and 2#
4* Provisions corresponding to those of paragraph 1 and to the rules for
its application may be adopted under the procedure laid down in Article 40 for the products specified in Article 1 (l) (b), (c) and (d)#
5* Detailed rules for the application fif this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40•
6* The levy provided for in this Article shall be fixed by the Commission#
1, Eachsugarmanufacturershallholdinstockthroughoutthemarketingyear a quantity of sugar which may not be less than 10% of his actual production or10°Joofhisbasicquota,whicheveristhesmaller. Thisminimumstock
must be the solo and uneiicunbered property of th© sugar r nanufaoturer in question® .
Derogations may be provided for in accordance with the procedure referred "to in paragraph 4* '
If tha market situation so requires , a decision may be taken :
(a) releasing all or part of the apre&aid minitoum stocks,
(b) requiring that: ill'or part 6f such stocks be offered .fOr. sal^®.
Conditions of sal6-, including a maximum selling price for the sugar *■ concerned, may be laid down,
3. TheCouncil,actingbyaqualifiedmajorityonaproposalfromtheCom­ mission, shall adopt general rules for the application of this Article. These rules ahall provide in particular for the payment of a sum of money by those sugar manufacturers who do not comply with the provisions of this Article .
4* DetailedrulesfortheapplicationofthisArticleshallbeadoptedin accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40.
1. Totheextentnecessarytoenablethe;.productslistedinArticlel(l)(a), (c) and (d) to be exported in the natural state, or in the form of goods listed in Annex I to this Regulation, on the basis of quotations or prices
for the products listed in Article l(l) (a).'and (c) on the world market, the difference between those quotations or prices and prices v/ithia the Communitymaybecoveredbyan- exportrefund,
2, The refund shall be the same for the whole Community. It may be varied . according to use or destination.
The refund shall be ^ranted on application by the party concerned. The refund for raw sugar may not exceed the refund for white sugar.
When the refund is being fixed particular account shall be : taken of the need to establish a balance between the use of Community basic. products in the manufacture of processed goods for export to third countries and the use
of third country products brought in under inward processing arrangements.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on & proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for granting refunds, for fixing'the amount of such refunds, and for fixing such Refunds in advance. ,
Refunds shall be fixed at regular intervals in accordance with the procedure laiddowninArticle40. WherenecessarytheCommissionmay,attherequest
of a Member State or on its own initiative, alter the refunds in the inter­ vening period.
3» TheCouncil,actingbyaqualifiedmajorityonaproposalfromtheCommission, shall adopt general rules applicable to refunds where those are awarded by tender.
4. Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid do\*n in Article 40.
5. Whoreitappearsfromanexaminationofthemarketsituationthatdifficulties exist owing to the application of the provisions concerning the advance fixing of the. levy, or if such difficulties are likely to arise, it may be decided,
in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40, to suspend the application of those provisions for as long as is strictly necessary.
In cases of extreme emergency the Coramission may, after examining the ' situation in the light of all . the information at its disposal , decide
to suspend advance fixing for not more than three working days.
Licence applications coupled with advance fixing which ar lodged during the period of suspension shall not be accepted.
1. To the extent necessaiy for the proper working of thfe common organization of the market in sugar, the Council , • acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, may prohibit, in whole or in part, the use of inward processing arrangements in respect of:
– the products listed in Article 1 (l) which are intended for the manu­ facture of the products listed in Article 1 (l)(d);
– and, in special instances, the products listed in Article 1 (l) which are intended for the manufacture of the goods-listed in Annex I to this Regulation .
1. The general rules for the interpretation of the Common Customs Tariff and the special rules for its application shall apply to the tariff classification of products covered by this Regulation'^ the tariff resulting from application of this Regulation shall be incorporated in the Common Customs Tariff .
2. Save as otherwise provided in this Regulation or where derogation there- from is decided by the Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission , the following shall be prohibited ?
- the levying of any customs duty on the products listed in Article 1(l) (a) and (d);
- the levying of any charge having an effect equivalent to a customs duty;
- the application of any quantitative restriction or measure having equivalent effect.
The restriction of import or export licences to a specified category of those entitled to receive them shall be one of the measures considered
as having effect equivalent to a quantitative restriction.
If f by reason of imports or exports , the Community market in one or more
of the products listed in Article l(l) experiences or is threatened with
serious disturbances whioh may endanger the objectives set out in
Article 39 of the Treaty, appropriate measures may be applied in trade
with third countries until such disturbance or threat of disturbance has ceased, *0
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt detailed rules for the application of this paragraph and define the cases in which and the limits within Member States may take protective measures•
If the situation mentioned in paragraph 1 arises , the Commission shall , at the request of a Member State or on its own initiative, decide upon the necessary measures ; the measures shall be communicated to the Member States and shall be immediately applicable. If the Commission receives a request from a Member State, it shall take a decision thereon within twenty-four hours following receipt of the request, ^
3, The measures decided upon by the Commission may be referred to the Council by any Member State within a period of three working days following the day on which they were communicated. The Council shall meet without delay. Acting by a qualified majority, it may amend or repeal the measures in question .
Articles 23 to 30 apply for the 1975/76 to 1979/30 marketing years.
A basic quota shall "be fixed for each undertaking which during the 1974/75 marketing year used its basic quota on its own behalf.
This basic quota shall be equal to the average annual sugar production of the undertaking concerned, considered to be such pursuant to the provisions
of Regulation n® IOO9/67/EEC during the 1968/69 to 1972/73 marketing years^ multiplied hy the coefficient 0.93.
However, this basic quota msy mot bo lower than that for the 1974/75 marketing year.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall fix the basic quotas referred to in paragraph 1 and adopt general rules for altering these quotas .
In accordance with the same procedure, the Council mny derogate from abovementionned paragraphs for the period referred to in Article 22.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted m accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40«
1. Each undertaking for which a basic quota has been fixed may >*e allotted maximum quota equal to its basic quota multiplied by a coefficient.
2« For the 1975/76 marketing year the coefficient referred to in paragraph 1 shall be 1,35«
Tho coefficient for the 1976/77 to 1979/80 marketing years shall be fixed at the same time as the target price in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4-3(2) of the Treaty, account being taken of the trend of production from the point of view of specialization and marketing opportunities .
Subject to Articlo 20 and the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3t the quantity of sugar produced in excess of the maximum quota fixed for an undertaking in any given marketing year shall not be disposed of on the internal market and must be exported in the natural state beforo 1 January following the end of the marketing year in question.
Under an international sugar agreement and subject to the commitments entered into by other developed countries equivalent to those entered
into by the Community, if there is a surplus on the world sugar market both the obligation to export end the possibility of exporting sugar produced over and above the maximum quota msy bo restricted. In that case, the disposal of all or some of the sugar in question on the internal market may be authorized under conditions still to be determined.
Articles 8, 9,16 end 18 shall not apply to the quantity referred to in paragraph 1 which ist nocht carried forward to the following marketing
year pusuant to Article 30.
However, by way of exception, it may be decided to apply Article 16 to
the extent necessary to guarantee the Community's sugar supply.
In that case, it shall be determined at the same time that all the sugar in question may by disposed of definitively on the internal market without the charge provided for in paragraph 5 being levied.
The Council, acting by a qualified maioritiy on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt rules for the application of paragraph 2.
Detailed rules fcr the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40. These detailed rules shall provide in particular for the levying of a charge on the sugar in question if it was disposed of on the internal market or was not exported in the natural state before the date given in paragraph 1.
Subject to the provisions of Article 30, Member States shall impose a production levy on manufacturers of sugar which is outside the "basic quota but within the maximum quota.
The production levy shall be calculated per unit of weight by dividing total losses incurred in marketing the quantity produced in the Community outside the guaranteed quantity by the sun of the quantities produced outside the basic quota by Community undertakings.
The guaranteed quantity shall be equal to human consumption in the Community, ev.T-_>r;sed as a quantity of white sugar, during a period still te be dete3>-
d, loss the quantity, expressed as white sugar, imported on preferential t?ir.s during the same period from the developing countries referred to in Protocol No 22 to the Act and from India.
When the calculation referred to in the first subparagraph is being made: - the total losses mentioned in that subparagraph shall be reduced by the
amount of the special export levies,
– quantities outside the maximum quotas and quantities carried forward to
the next marketing year pursuant to Article 30 shall be ignored.
The production levy may not , however , exceed a maximum amount .
If the production levy is less than the maximum amount referred to in paragraph 3? sugar manufacturers must pay beet sellers the difference between the maximum amount of the production levy and its actual amount,
up to a percentage still to be determined.
The amount to be paid per metric ton of beet shall be fixed for beet of a standarf quality.
This amount shall be adjusted by the price increases and reductions referrend to in Article 5«
Sugar manufacturers may require cane sellers to reimburse the production levy in respect of a quantity of cane corresponding to the quantity of
sugar on which the production levy is charged, up to a percentage still to be determined.
6» Member States shall satisfy themselves, on the bas:\s of the information supplied by sugar manufacturers , that :
(a) the payment for the beet, and
(b) the sum of the amount reimbursed to manufacturers by cane sellers satisfy the relevant Community provisions .
7. Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall bo adopted, and the amount referred to in the second subparagraph of paragrap 4
shall be determined, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40. -
TheCouncil, acting"byaqualified, majorityonaproposalfromthe Commission, shall fixs
- minimum prices for beet outside the basic quota for the areas referred to in Article 4 (l)»
- the percentages referred to in Article 26 (4) ana- (5)?
- the maximum amount of the production levy calculated in such a way that the minimum prices for beet outside the ba^ic quota are respected, at the same time as the derived intervention prices.
Sugar manufacturers may "buy beet intended for the production of sugar m excess of the maximum quota fixed for the undertaking concerned at a price which is lower than the minimum prices for beet referred to in Article 4 (l)«
Eowever, in respect of the quantity of beet purchased corresponding to the quantity of sugar:
- disposed of on the internal market pursuant th the second subparagraph of Article 25 (3), or
- carried forward to the following marketing year pursuant to Article 30, the sugar manufacturers in question shall, where appropriate, adjust the purchase price so that it is at least equal to the minimum price referred to in the first indent of Article 4 (!)•
1. In contracts for the delivery of beet for the manufacture of sugar, beet shall be differentiated depending on whether the quantities of sugar to be manufactured from it ares
(a) within the basic quota;
(b) outside the basic quota but within the maximum quota; (c) outside the maximum quota.
For each undertaking, sugar manufacturers shall inform the Member States in which the undertaking concerned produces sugar ofs
- the quantities of beet referred to under (a) for which pre-sowing
contracts were signed and the sugar content on which these contracts
- the corresponding yield expected.
Member States may require additional information to be supplied to them.
2. By way of derogation from Article 5 (2) (b) and Article 28 (l), any sugar
manufacturer who has . not signed pre-sowing delivery contracts for a
quantity of beet equal to the basic quota, at the minimum price for beet
referred to in the first indent of Article 4 (l)» shall be required to
pay this minimum price for all beet processed into sugar in the under­ •i'..
3. The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for the application of paragraph 1.
4. Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40. As far as paragraph 2 is concerned, they shall take the carry–forward effcdted pursuant to Article 30 into account .
1. Where the provisions of Article 30 apply, each undertaking may carry forward that part of its production which is outside th6 basic quota,
up to a maximum corresponding to 10 % of the basic quota, to the following marketing year to be treated as part of that year's production.
No production may be carried forward to the I980/8I marketing year.
2. Undertakings may carry forward part of their production to the following market year only if:
- they have notified the Member States concerned before 1 February of
the quantity to be carried forward}
– they keep the quantity carried forward in store form 1 February to
31 January of the following year ; storage costs for this peripd shall not be refunded under the provisions of Article 8.
However, as regards undertakings situated in the French departments of Guadeloupe and Martinique, in the first indent of the first subparagraph the date H1 February" is replaced by "1 May" and, in the second indent of the said subparagraph "1 February to 31 January" is replaced by M1 May to 30 April". If total production at the end of the marketing year in
question is over may be retroactive
less than the estimate made at the time the decision to carry adjusted before 1 August of the following marketing year with effect .
3. Provisions oonernings
- payment for beet used to manufacture the quantitiy of sugar carried
- contributions by beet or cane sellers towards the cost of storing the
quantities carried forward;
- agreement between beet or cane sellers and sugar manufacturers^ as a
precondition for carrying forward .
shall be adopted by the Council acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission.
4. Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40•
1# Articles 31 "to 36 shall apply from 1 January 1975 to 31 December 1979 to white or raw sugar imported on the preferential terms set out in this Title , hereinafter called "i#p#t#sugar", coming from and . originating in the countries referred to in Protocol Ho 22 to the Act, the countries and territories referred to in Article 118 of the Act, and from India, hereinafter called "suppling countries".
2# A certain quantity of sugar covered by the arrangements set out in this Title shall be fixed for each of the suppling countries#
This quantity, hereinafter called "preferential quantity", shall
be fixed in terns of white sugar for a period still to be determined#
In a period of 12 months, the sum of the preferential quantities may not exceed 1 400 000 metric tons of white sugar#
3# The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for the application of this Article and shall determine the preferential quantities and the periods deferred to in paragraph 2#
1# See the first Sentence of point 4 in the Explanatory Memorandum
1. A guaranteed price shall be fixed :
(tO for white sugar of a standard miality, (b^ for raw sugar of a standard euality.
These prices shall he valid for -unpacked goods delivered cif to European
ports of the Community, • V.•
2» The
guaranteed prices shall be fixed, taking into account :
• (aj the intervention price for white sugar applicable in the
I Community ,
(b) the refining margin,
(c) the yield chosen. for defining the standard cruality of rav? sugar,
3* The Council , acting by a rualified majority on a proposal from . the Commission shall , after consulting the suppling countries , fix the guaranteed prices for each of the periods determined in accordance with Article 31(2>.
1« When i«p«t# sugar is imported a levy shall "be charged to take aiaoount of the difference between the refining margin referred to in. Artiole 32 (2) and the processing margin referred to in
2<» The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shaS- adopt general rules for the application of this
Article and shall, if necessary,adopt special rules relating to the allocation of the raw i»p«,t«sugar intended to be refined, and fix the charge referred to in paragraph 1 for the period referred to in Article '31#
3« Delailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40«
1 , Bj' way of derogation' from Article 33<l \ vhere the ravr i«p«t # sugar is intended for refining in a refinery the lev^dng of the charge provided for in the said paragraph may "be replaced, at the recruest of the importer,
by the lodging of a deposit eoual to the said charge. This deposit shall "be returned on the production of proof that the sugar in miestion has been refined in a refinery.
Where the charge referred to' in Article 33(1^ was 1evyed on raw itPVt^Ugar^ which was subserruently refined in a refinery, an ecrual amount shall be
to ;the refiner in crues^ion on production of proof of refining,
2, A subsidy shall be granted to all refiners of raw sugar produced in the French overseas departments in refineries situated within the Community,
This subsidy shall be determined taking into account s (a^ the refining margin referred to in Article 32(2^; (b^ the oosts of storing the i*,p»t# sugar?
(c^ the processing margin referred to in Article 12(3^•
3, For the purposes of this Article, "refinery" means a production unit engaged exclusively in the processing of raw sugar into white sugar,
4, The Council , acting by a oualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for the application of this Article and shall determine the amount of the subsidy referred to in paragraph 2,
5, Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40,
1, The intervention agencies referred to in Article 9(l) shrll buy- in at the gUr-rcinteed prices , in accordance with the provisions of th.'.e /.icicle ,,
t'.ia T'hi+3 and raw sujar offered to them "by Ihe producers ox' the su.^ar or rights .
Offers shcj.1 be accepted after a period still to be determined.
2. The sugar offered to the intervention agency must be delivered cif to one or more European ports of the Community to be determined by the agency,
3» If the quality of the i,»p#tesi"gar bought in deviates from the standard quality for which the j.ru.;rrar.teed price of the sugar in question was fixed, that price shall be adjusted by means of price increases and reductions.
4* The provisions of Article 10 shall apply to the sale of such sugar.
5. Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40»
1, Where the preferential cruantity is not delivered by a suppling coxmtry within the period referred! to in Article 31(2) rad :
(a.) if the production of the suppling country is greater than the sum of its consumption and its preferential cruantity fixed for that period, the preferential puantity fixed for that suppling country for each of the following periods shall be reduced "by the cruantity still outstanding;
(b) if there is a shortage of sugar in the supplier country, the preferential cruantity fixed for it for each of the periods immediately following t]M period in ruestion shall be reduced by half the cruantities outstanding^ during the two periods preceding that from which the preferential quantities are reduced.
gowever, if the production prospects of the suppling country make it seem likely that the preferential cruantities will be delivered in full dr.ring the period for which they are to be reduced, it may be decided
not to reduce themj ,
(c^ if there is no shortage of sugar but the suppling country adduces a
reason which is recognized by the Commission as a oase of force majeure, extra time shall be allowed for the delivery.
The delivery of the cruantity in cnieetion during this time shall be
considered to have been effected during the period originally laid dov^ O
2. Where the preferential cruantities are reduced under paragraph 1, the
<ruantr. ties in cruestion shall be reallocated . The said cruantities shall be allotted to those suppling countries which have delivered their preferential cruanfc:txes in full and to which paragraph 1(a^ has never been applied.
This allocation shall be effected in proportion to the preferential cruantities fixed for each of the suppling countries concerned.
At the recruest of one of the countries entitled to participate and after conr-" t.mg the other suppling countries similarly entitled , it may be decided to derogate from this method of allocation.
3» Where the preferential quantity is not delivered, in full under the circum­ stances set out in paragraph 1(a) and (b), after the suppli<ng country- concerned has been established the quantities outstanding may be delivered during the period concerned by the other suppling countries to which
paragraph 1(a) has never been applied.
The replacement quantities shall, up to the limit of the quantities outstanding, be allocated among the suppling countries concerned after consultirg them and in proportion to their capability.£
4. Detailed rules for the application of this Article, including the alteration of the preferential quartitios and the allocation referred to in paragraph 3« shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40.
The requisite provisions to prevent the sugar market being disturbed of an alteration in price levels at the change-over from one marketing year to the next may be adopted in accoidanca with the procedure laid down in Article 40.
Member States and the Commission shall communicate to each other
the information necessary for implementing this Regulation. Rules for
the communication and distribution of such information shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40*
1 » A Management Committee for Sugar hereinafter called the " Committee" ■ •• shall be; established , oonsi sizing of representatives o? Member States
and presided over "by a representative of the Ccainiscion.
2, Within the Committee the votes of Member States shall be weighted in accordance with Article 148(2) of the Treaty. The Chairman shall not vote
1. Where the procedure laid down in this Article is to be followed,
the Chairman shall refer the matter to the Committee either on his own
initiative or at the request of the representative of a Member State.
2. The representative of the Commission shall submit a draft of the measures
to be taken. The Committee shall deliver its Opinion on such measures within
a time limit to be set by the Chairman according to the urgency of the quesL'.cns under consideration. An Opinion shall be adopted by a majority of forty-one votes .
3. The Commission shall adopt measures which shall apply immediately.
However, if these measures are not in accordance with the Opinion of the Committee, they shall forthwith be communicated by the Commission to the Council. In that event the Commission may defer application of the measures which it has adopted for not more than one month from the date of such communicat ion .
The Council, acting by a qualified majority may take a different decision within one month.
The Committee may consider any other question referred to it by its Chairman either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of a
1. The provisions concerning the financing of the common agricultural policy- shall apply to the produots listed in Article l(l)«
2, Article 40(4) of the Treaty and the provisions adopted for the application of that Article shall, as far as the Guarantee Section of the European
Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund is concerned, apply to the French overseas departments in respect of the markets in the products listed
Goods listed in Article l(l) which arc manufactured or obtained from products to which Article 9(2) and Article 10(l) of the Treaty do not apply shall not be admitted to free circulation within the Community*
Save as otherwise provided m this Regulation, Articles $2 to 94 of "the Treaty- shall apply to the production of and trade in the products listed in Article 1(1)•
This Regulation shall be so applied that appropriate account is taken, at the same time, of the objectives set out in Articles 39 HO of the Treaty. '
Should transitional measures be necessary to facilitate transition to the system established by this Regulation, in particular if the introduction of the new system on the date provided for would give rise to substantial difficulties, such measures shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40. They shall be applicable until 30 June 1976 at the latest .
1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
2. It shall apply from 1 July 1975» with the exception of :
- Articles 6, 7» 23, 24, 29 and 46, which shall apply immediately on the
entry into force of this Regulation for the 1974/75 marketing year, and - Articles 31 to 36, which shall apply from 1 January 1975•
All references to articles of the said Regulation are to "be read in conjunction with the table of equivalence given in Annex II.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
4» All references to Regulation n° IOO9/67/EEC must "be understood as references to this Regulation.
3. Regulation n° IOO9/67/EEC is repealed with effect from 30 June 1975*
For the Council
Description of goods
not containing cocoas
G. White chocolate D. Other
Chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa
Preparations of flour , moal , starch of malt extract , of a
kind used as infant food ci* for dietic of culinary purpose?, containing less than 50 % by weight of cocoa
Pastry , biscuits , cakes and other fine bakers 1 wares , whether or not containing cocoa in any proportion
Natural yeasts (active or inactive ); prepared baking A. Active natural yeasts s
II. Bakers' yeasts
Pood preparations not elsewhere specified of included
Lemonade , flavoured spa waters and flavoured aerated
an other non-alcoholic beverages , not including fruit and vegetable juices falling within heading 20.07
Vermouths, and other wines of fresh grapes flavoured with aromatic extracts
Spirits (other than those of heading No 22.08) 5 liqueurs and other spirituous beverages ; compound alcoholic preparations
(known as "concentrated extracts") for the manufacture of beverages s
Acyolic alcohols and their or nitrosated derivatives ;
halogenated ,
sulphonated ,
nitrated
Description of goods .......
29.IO Acetals and heniaoetals and single or complex oxygen-func­
and their halcgonated , sulpho­ derivatives ;
29.14 Monocarbosylie acids and their
and peracids , and their halogenated, sulphonated; nitrated or nitrosated derivatives :
ex A. Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids : - Ifannitol esters and sorbitol esters
ex B. Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids : - Kannitol esters and sorbitol esters
29.15 Polycarbo:cylic acids and their anhydrides , halides , peroxides
tion acotals and hemiacetals , nated , nitrated or nitrosated
ex B, Others
and peracids , and their halogonated , sulphonated , nitrosated derivatives :
A. Acyclic polycarboxylic acids: ex V. Other
- Itaconic acid end its salts and esters
nitrated or
29.16 Carboxylic acids with alcohol , phenol , aldehyde or ketone function and other single or complex oxygen-function carbo^y- lic acids and their anhydrides , halides , peroxides and peracids , and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives :
A. Carboxylic acids with alcohol function: I. Lactic acid and its salts and esters IV. Citric acid and its salts and esters
ex VIII. Other:
- Glyceric acid , glycollic acid , saccharonic acid , isosaccharonic acid , heptasaccharie acid and their salts and esters
29.35 Heterocyclic compounds; nucleio acids: ex Q. Other:
- Anhydric compoimds of mannitol or sorbitol, excluding maltol and isonaltol
29.43 Sugars , chemically pure , other than sucrose and lactose ; sugar ethers and sugar esters , and their salts , other than products of headings Nos 29»39> 29.41 and 29.42:
ex B. Other:
- Sorbose and its salts and esters
Description of goods
Chemical products and preparations of the chemical or allied industries (including those consisting of jainrtvros of natural products ), not elsewhere specified or included ; residual products of the chemical or allied industries, not elsewhere specified or included;
Q. Foundiy core binders based on synthetic rasins ex T. Others
This Reflation
 proposal for a REGULATION (SDCp OF THE CQTBTCIL
on the fixing and alteration of the basic quotes for sugar
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community ;
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No /74^ of on the common organization of the market in sugar, and in particular Article 23(3) thereof ;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Whereas Article 23(3) of Regulation (EEC) No /74 lays down that the Council should fix the basic quotas for each undertaking and adopt general rules and any dorogations;
Whereas Article 23(l) of the said Regulation mclces provision for a formula for fixing quotas whereby the basic quota is obtained by multiplying the average annual suger production of the undertaking concerned, considered assuchpursuanttoRegulationNoIOO9/67/EEC, duringthe1968/69to1972/73 marketing years t>y a coefficient of 0.93» provided that such quota is not lower than that for the 1974/75 marketing year;
Whereas, in order to take account of any changes in the structure of the sugarindustryorof"beetgrowing, provisionshouldbemadeforthebasic quota for each undertaking to be reduced by a quantity not exceeding, for the entire period from 1 July 1975 to 30 June I9CO1 10 $ of the basic quota fixed originally;
 Whereas the object of the original: fixing of basic quotas for individual undertakings might be 'jeopardized in the' event of the merger or transfer
ot the undertakings, the transfer by an undertaking of one of its factories or the closure of -arc undertaking? -whereas consideration should therefore
be given to altering the basic quota of the undertakings concerned;
Whereas it is essential -that alterations in the basic quotas originally- fixed be prevented from damaging the interests of the beet a cane grower's concerned : v '
Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 2 aid 3» the basic quotas referred to in Article 23 of Regulation (E3C) No ...../74 shall "be fixed for each undertaking, in terms of white sugar as shown in the Annex.
1. The basic quota for each undertaking may be reduced by a total quantity not exceeding, for the entire period from 1 Jul;'- 1975 to 30 Juno I9Q0, 10 fy of the basic quota fixed for each undertaking by this Regulation.
The
2. The (a)
quantity deducted shall be allocated to one or more other undertakings.
basic quota shall be altered only ifj
the structure of the sugar economy of the regions concerned is thereby improved5
the interests of beet or cane growers concerned are protected.
The basic quota of an enterprise producing can sugar shall not be reduced unless the deducted quantity is allocated to other enterprises producing cane sugar.";"'
3. Any alternation of the basic quota, pursuant to this Article shall be made within the framework of the detailed rules of application.
It shall occur only at the request of the Member State involved, after consultation between the latter raid the beet and cane producers and the sugar manufacturers concerned.
The basic quotas shall be altered in the event of tlio merger or transfer
of undertaikings, the transfer of factories or rhe closure of undertakings#
In the event of the merger of undertakings, the basic quota for the resulting Undertaking shall be fixed at a quantity equal to the sua of the basic quotas allocated to the undertakings concerned prior to their merger ,
3. In the event of the transfer of an undertaking, the basic quota for the transfered undertaking shall be allocated to the transferee undertaking of, where there are several undertakings , it shall bo distributed' among them on the basis of the production they have absorbed.
4. In the event of the transfer of a factory the basic quota for the underJ. taking transferring the factory shall bo reduced and the basic quota for the undertaking, or undertakings , acquiring it shall be increased by the quantity deducted in proportion to the production absorbed,
5. Whore an undertaking ceases to operate in circumstances other than those referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 its basic quota may be allocated to ono or more undertakings in proportion to the production to be absorbed.
6. Measures in respect of basic quotas can be taken pursuant to this Article
only insofar as the interests of the beet or cane growers concerned are protected .
Transfers cf basic quotas fron enterprises producing cane Eugar to others producing beet sugar shall not take place.
7. The alterations referred to in paragraph 1 shall bo adopted under the detailed rules of application.
The measures referred, to in Article 3 shall take effect, when the merger, transfer, or closure, as the case may be, occurs ?
(a) between 1 July and 31 January of the following year, for the marketing year concurrent with that period;
(b) between 1 February and 30 Juno of the same year, for the marketing year following that period.
Article 5 For the purposes of this Regulation :
(a) "merger of undertakings" aeanss
the consolidation into a single undertaking of two or more undertakings, each with a basic quota ;
(b) "transfer of an undertalcing" means s
transfer of the business of an vaidertaking with a basic quota to one or more undertakings ;
(c) "transfer of a factory" means:
transfer of ownership of a production unit, including all the plant required for manufacturing sugar , to one or more undertakings , resulting in partial or total absorption of the production of the transferee undertaking.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Regulation No 1027/67/EEC^ and Regulation (EEC) No 1898/68^ shall be repealed with effect from 30 June 1975*
I m p r e s a Onderneming Virksomhed
Address of the registered office
I. m p r e s a Onderneming Virksomhed
I m p r e s a Ondernening 7 i r k s om h g d
^ Siep-e Sonial Addveea of the
Caress of the registered office Adresse dos Sitzes
I m p r e s a Onderneming Virksomhed
-4- The adress of this undertaking in the agricultural area in which all tho factories ara situated is :
Address of the registered office
I in p r e s a Onderneming Virksomhed
 Entreprise Adresse du Sie^re social Quota de base tra Dn ce r t s': i a s Address of the registered office Basio quota mt
Address of the registered office
75017 - PARIS, 27, rue St,Fcrdinand 75025 - PARIS, BaP<» 431■-r'l
Mdress of the régi'àtèred office Adresse des Sitzes
4- The adress of this undertaking in the agricultural area in which all tha factories ar# situated is :
ex VIII. andere:
ex T. andere:
(Working document of the Commission)
In essence, the present text puts into legal form the principles set out "by the Commission in its various communications to the Council concerning the Community's future sugar policy"'".
Because of the substantial amendments to the basic provisions governing the common organization of the market in sugar with regard to the pro­ duction system it has appeared necessary to recast the basio Regulation relating to the sugar sector, at the same time consolidating the numerous amendments skill in force in a new basio Regulation that will ," in future ,
take the place of Regulation n# 1009/67/EEC as last amended by Regulation
(EEC)IT01602/74^• TheprovisionstobeincludedinChapterIVarestill under study by the Commission.
1. The price system as it now exists has not been fundamentally altered.
2. The trade system includes new provisions requiring manufacturers to
hold a minimum stock. The provisions, which were the subject of a yt .
previous proposal * have been retained since the supply situation requires that measures to this effect be taken.
3. The new production system, which is to apply from 1 July 1975» is based
on the principle of guiding production by means of quotas valid for five
sugar marketing years.
The Commission still considers that a system on these lines is the most effective means of ensuring, firstly, some measure of production in areas
other than those most suited to beet cultivation through the setting of
an adequate price level for produotion within basio quotas ; seoondly development
(1)Cf.Docs.COM(731177finalof12July1973andSEC(74)2784finalof ' 9. July 1974o
 of prodxiotion "beyond those oa-uo <raotr.n in creas coot suited to fcsei cultivuti.oii ozd when conlitionra ayo noraaly c.ljuutrtant of Ca.vtvmity
prohtoUon to tho Xov©5, of internal cc.losf takin2 account of pcssihlo intcrruvtio^X ©ocsaitaoutfiu'
hi the light of tho3a oh^ctivss, tho eyaton accordingly provisos that
. hr.cio <juotaa BhCilX ho calculated by roferoaca. to tho rwvsko enrra&X emghv
pr <>hicixcn Cx tno'i inslcr Sarins tin Ccrr-Mnity durir^ tho
to 'oT^/73 !:ar!:f;tins yoursf -.raXtipXisd 1"/ ■£ nnifoi-:: co*iT.;?t.ci:vv:t c? 0»^3e except that s.o ur.dort?2d.-ri;* *r-ay "to allocated w. quota Xowac than ito procent cncu Uith a vicar -to avoiding to tho c?e&t®»t orient pccsil-lOj cay
i/urthc-rB :i.n lira v.ith tho ror.sarcs ainitd' »t prcnctins specialisation, cash uv&I srtchixs io to Va allocated c. rcxlrtsa. quota ?or ®?.x»X to tho hMcic quota rmXtipXiod hy ft ceofficiftxit cf 1,35 % vMeh^uota ti-jy "ha' cdfcstod fvx' 3uV.sa$u.~at n.;>ilvwX:.Mr yasxa in tho ii^ht of the trend of production c^oa in- tsxwa of jnicoiRXiaatio"! mi 1r.u7-V.0tj.us o?:>ertiin$>tioiu Tihsi propcaal Tor tx Council Kc^xiXatica mtowsd to thai tor tho baoio Eo^aXation. provides that the "basic qaotu x&cjr aXac to adjusted tip to a •
tsasirsva of 10,5 to avoid, c.o far as poEciUlOf «ty restriction of production at iinicrtnldr.3; Xsvol and to r^fcrd no;; prcduosrs aocojjg to tjuotas# -.
Lar:tlyc in line with tho ncr-curcc intcnici to adjust production to Kiirhotins opportunities sod tnkinj aooonnt of posciltld Coraaixnity
coxiitr.cntaft VssHea tho narciaura quota* tho^cytitcs- Xryc fto;;n •" nXjoci^X provioioiis &ppXioc.'J<Xo to. tu.jvir oap&ljXo of l-oin^ produced cutuido t< qnotrvti* KiOiao ti&uauvoe. en2.ul3 th& CccKtunity to cUaX V.otli trith a curplua • Cii-J r. i*.eff.cit jo'.tnation. In firnt oitv.ntion, tho r«^i.r^«it tzt% tho c.hilit-7 to o:~or-t nay ho restrict3d in vie-.r cf tlio r.V)fJVOv?en^ioncd coanitr.e2:tn'«* • \ •••-.'
Xxi tho coookI cituation, tho ttaid sa&2r jatsy- bo eoXd cn tho Ccs3aucity,0\\ iutcrn^X u^vhot ccvl 0zpori Xovie» iwpos&d cm oxport© -of it»,
?ho othw >r.n5o provinion® c.t pr«s»nt 'in fcroe cor.corain«f tho produotion levy, the two minimum prices for "beet, delivery contracts and the carry forward are retained without fundamental alteration.
to to fixed £0* es/ia. uadortaiia# by tho CounoiX it«o:lv »
The general provisions reiterate the existing provisions with the exception of those which "become Ineffective on 30 June 1975 or which have lapsed.
The final provisions lay down that the new basio Regulation shall enter into force on the third day follewing its publication in the Offioial Journal of the European Communities,that is to say not later than December 1974 so that, on the one hand, the provisions concerning firstly, the conditions governing purchasing, delivery, reoeption of and payment for sugarbeet and the agreements within the trade, the fixing of basic quotas and the r>«>ximum quota and, secondly, those conerning the transitional measures come into foroe at the same time for the 1975/76 marketing year and, on the other hand, the provisions to be decided in Chapter IV can enter into force on the January 1975*
on the common orrani nation of' the ; market in suin-r THE COU1TCIL OP TIE EUROPEAN COJE-IUITITIES
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the Eujropoan Econoraio Community, end
in particular Articles 42, 43 end 227 thereof; j
/Having regard to tho Treaty concerning the accohsion of new Member States to
tho Europe-ail Economic Community and to the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Protocol No 22 to. the Act [arunmneoxed thereto, hereinafter
called "the Act"Q
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Pai-liarncnt (2).
' Whereas tho fundamental provisions concerning tie common organization of the
market in sugar have been amended several: timesIj^ince "that adoption;£whorcas these provisions will have to bo amended thoroughly again to . take account , in particular, of tho forthcoming expiry of the transitional provisions and the
systom to bo instituted under Protocol ITo 22 to the Actf^whereas it is there­ fore essential to redraft these fundamental provisions; i! . .
Whereas the operation and development of the common market in agricultural produces must be accompanied by the establishment ef a 'common agricultural policy to include in particular a common organizations f "the agricultural markets , which may take various forms , 'depending on the product concerned ;
VJhereas, to ensure that the necessary guarantees in respect of employment and
standards of living are maintained for Community growers of sugar beet and , . sugar cane , provision should be made for measures to stabilize the sugar
market; whereas to this end a target price and an intervention price- for ^ white sugar should be fixed each year for the Community area having the
 lariat curplus; whereas donved intervention pricoo chould bo fixod each year for other Conraunity aroas , account taken of I'e^ional pries varia­ tions arising -under natural conditions of prico formation on tho market with a normal harvest <uid of tho procopsing sta^o; wherean tho objective referred to above could bo attained by mcJcinc provision for bjiying-in by intervention GS&noioo &t. tho intervention prices; whereas moreover a compensation oyoteia • for otora/p costa for eujar produced from raw materials (including laolasuos)
of Conaunit-y origin could coi-ve tho Dane puiposo;
Whereas it ia necessary to enouro that tho retaliation of tho tu^ar raantet
•.../' influences t-.u^ar bsot and DU,;,*ar cano production; wneroan for txiio reason it
is advisable to fix minimum prices which rr.uct bo,;rcnpcctod when ou^a» r.ianufac–
turore buy boot , to lay down • r particularly ia respect of -the- ihiles of com-< • • petition," basic Community provisions governing contractual relationships between-
bjjyers and sellers of beet, and to adopt appropriate provisions- to this end for' sugar cane producers ;
Whereas tho cKration of a nin^-lo Coj^nunity narket. for cu^ar involves, apart
fron a sin;;le price cystcn, tho introduction of a cornon trading system at
tho external frontiers of tho Conmunity; whoroaa a trading Byntcua including • import lovieo and export refunds , combined with intervention r.canures , also cerveo to stabilise the Oomurrity narket", in particular by preventing prico . . fluctuations on tho v;orld market from affecting prices ruling .within tho Coximunity; whereas; provision chould therefore be Made for the charcins of a
levy on inports from third countries and tho payment of a refund oil exports to thoso Dam.o countries which would , in cither case , cover" the difference between pricen ruling insido and outride tho Coraaunity if world market pri­ ces are "lower than the Corniunity pricen ;
Whereas, in addition to tho system described alvove and to the extent necessary for its proper working, provision should bo raado for ro£ulatin<j or, when tho situation oil tho market BO requires, proliibifting the uso of "inward proCOSEins araxoigoiaontG"j• ' ■ * '* : :*
Whereat;, where a ehorta-go on tho world market results in world markot price3 •
boing hi^ier than tho Cor^Tinity pricen , appropriate provisions should be laid in c:\12r to avvid n ti::a a civuavi&n w.'roro v.rao-j.al v\\rolur.*sri ars
exported to thix-d countries while an abnormal rino in prices in the Co:n:;urdty makes it impossible to continue to guarantee supplies to oonsumers at reasonable
.pricon; whereas, moreover, tho introduction.of n, system whereby each manufac– l•
furcr must hold at least a minimum stock ox one of tho roost effective via
to achieve this objective;
Whereas it must be' made possible for the compete;jnt authorities to keep a j\
constant watch on trade movements to enable the a to assess market trends ... i
and, whore appropriate, to apply such provisioni of tnhis Regulation as prove
necessary: whereas to this end -rovision should;1 bo made for the issue of ;
import and export licences conditional on the lp'i^in^ of a deposit guarantee­ ing that the transaction for which the licence boon requested will be effected;
Whereas the levy system makes' it possible to dinpenfjo with all other protec- i,
tive measures at the external frontiers of the ftonrsunity; whereas, however, the common price and levy machinery may, in exceoptional circumstances, prove defective; whereas, in such cases, so a3 not to Heave the Community market
i.rit?3 therefrom after the
import barriers which existed previously have bitien removed, the Community V
should be_enabled to take all necessary measures without delay; . .
Whereas production in the Community as originally constitued has been maintained at an acceptable level in relation to consumption in recent
years; whereas even in those regions whioh are least suitable for beet cultivation produotion has remained just below the basio quotas; whereas, thanks to certain competition, particularly in respect of sugar produced outside basio quotas, therehasbeen some regional specialization; whereas because produotion outside the quotas has been able to develop freely,it
as been able to benefit to some extent from world market prioes ; whereas,'
in these circumstances, the system of productipn quotas should be retained forapreciseperiodaftercertain adjustmentshavebeenmadeinthelight of experience gained; whereas these adjustments should inolude, in partioular, the allocation by the Community of basio quotas to individual undertakings • depending on their produotion over a reference period which is the same
for alle undertakings, and. some rules in respect of sugar manufactured out­ side the quotas;
Whereas the other fundamental provisions concerning the Community price and sales guarantee, which is limited or wihtdraun for quantities manu­ factured over and above the basio quota depending on whether or not the exceed a oertain ceiling, those concerning delivery for sugar beet and sugar cane and the rules of the oarry-forward system should be retained;
without defence against disturbances
which may j-rios therefrom after the !
of tho roost effective ways I
 Whereas the establishment of a single market "based on a oommon prioe system wouldbejeopardizedbythegrantingofcertainaids; whereas,therefore, the provisions of the Treaty which allow the assessment of aids granted by Member States and the prohibition of those which are incompatible with the common market should be made to apply to sugar;
Whereas Counoil Regulation No 1009/67/eEC"'"^ of 18 December 1967 established the common organization of the market in sugar; whereas the transition to the
system established by this Regulation must be effeoted as smoothly as possible; whereas to this and oertain transitional measures may prove necessary; whereas the same need may arise at each change-over from one marketing year to the
next ; whereas provision should therefore be made for the possibility of adopting appropriate measures;
Whereas intervention is essential if the sugar price is to be guaranteed; whereas, in view of the special importance of sugar production for the economy of the French overseas departments , provisions oonoerning the Guarantee
Seotion of the European Agricultural Guidance Fund must be made to apply
to these departments; f
Whereas the oomnran organization of the market in sugar must take appropriate account, at the same time, of the objectives set out in Articles 39 and 110 of the Treaty;
Whereas, in order to facilitate implementation of the proposed measures, a prooedure should be provided for establishing olose cooperation between Member States and the Commission within a Management Committee ;
Inscription of ccods Beit såfCc'.r and cime euf^ar, kolid
Sirrar beet , vholo or.rjliccd , frenh , dried or ponderad;
I7.O2 C to F
lîolaacoa i whether or not decolourized ,
Other su&ars ( but not including , lacto re and glucoae )} t
sugar. eyi'aps (but not including lactone'.'syrup and glucose ϋΓν-,αρ)} artificial honoy (whether or not nixed v;ith natural honey); carc-jo1
Flavoured or coloured sugara (but not including lactose · said glucooe), Dyrups (but not including lactose riyrup cj'jd glucose cyrup) and r.olacnroc, but not includili;; fruit juices containing added cu^ar in any proportion
Boet-pulp , bag-aeso and othor waste of BUfjar namifacturo ;
2* Ibr tho purposesof this Ko^l&tions
1, . Tho caramon organization of tho market in o\isar ohall conprir.o a prico • .v.*. and trading r.ycioa and covor tho following produotni
–- "vrhito cu^or" means» rru^ar falling vrxthin heading 17a 17.01 of tho Common
Customs Tariff containing , in tho dry otato , 99 • 5'/3 or c>oi\5 by v/eight of Ducroce determined by tho polarir;ietrac mst-hodj
– "raw nur;ar" meano cu^ar falling within hooding Ho 17.01 of tho Co-rjhon Cuotons Tariff containing , in tho dry ntato , loos than 99 '5'p ^7 vreisht of sucrose determined by the polarl;notrio raethod.
A target price for white sugar shall be fixed each year, for the Comrmnity area having the largest surplus. This target price shall "be valid for whi'tc sugar of a standard quality , unpacked , ex-factory , loaded on to
the r.ieans of transport chosen "by the purchaser.
Before 1 August of each year the target price for the marketing year '
beginning on 1 July of the following calendar year shall be fixed in _y/
accordance with the procedure laid down in Article
The sane procedure ohall be followed to determine!
– the standard quality for white sugar and, at the target price,
–• the Community area having the largeii surplus .
43(2) of-the Treaty. 4
same. time as the , : .
An intervention price for white sugar chall be fixed each year for the Community area having the largest surplus. ' \ .
Derived intervention prices chall be fixed for other areas , account being taken of the regional variations which, given a normal harvest and free movement of sugar, might be expected to occur in the price of sugar under natural conditions of prico formation. • ' .
The intervention prices referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall bo valid
for white sugar of the standard quality to_which the target pric6 applies ,
unpacked, ex-factory, loaded into tho' means of-transport chosen by the
The derived intervention prices for French overseas departments shall , however, bo valid for sugar fob, and stowed aboard a seagoing vessel at tho port of embarkation, ♦,
For these departments , intervention prices shall also be fixed for raw sugar of a standard quality. These shall be" derived from the intervention prices for white sugar fixed for those departments , allowance being made for a uniform processing margin and a standard yield.
•Theinterventionpricefortheareahavingthe-largestsurplusshallbe tJ'• fixed at the same time.as the target.price in accordance with the procedure laiddowninArticle43(2)ofJtheTreaty. ' . '
The Counfcil, acting by a qualified majority/on a proposal from the Commission shall determine: . . •
– the standard quality for raw sugar and, before 1 August of each year for " the- following marketing year, .
–■ tho areas referred to in paragraph 2 and £ho derived intervention prices valid for these «sre«ssu ;
Each year, for each boct-augar-producing area for which an intervention
~ a'minimum price for beet shall, be fixed m accordance with the provi-.
ciona of paragraph 2, 3 and 4j • . V.-'
– a'minimum price for boot outside the basic quota shall be fixed in
accordance with Article 27. , ...... ' •* \
These prices shall apply to a Bpecifiod delivery stage and a specified
Yflien the minimum pries for beet is being established, the intervention
price for white Gugar in the area in question arid fixed values for the *■' *
Community representing:
• - th.c prococsing narginj ' . .
- where appropriate, coats incurred in delivering beet to factories . '
shall be taken into acco\tnt.
At the same time as the target price is fi^ed:
– the minimum price for beet. Referred to in the first indent of paragraph 1 for the Community area having the largest surplus' shall be fixed, and
–thedeliverystageandstandardqualityforbeetshallbedetermined ' »•
inaccordancewiththeprocedurelaiddowninArticle43oftheTreaty. , ■a
The Council , acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall fix the minimum price for beet1 referred to in the
first indent of paragraph 1 for other areas at the same time as the " derived intervention r»ricee.
– undertakings' receipts from sales of molanses; and,
Subject to the provisions of Article 23 and provisions adopted pursuant to Article 30(3), ougar manufacturers tying beet which ,
•(a) is suitable for processing into sugar, end'
(b) is intended for processing into sugar, • • '
shall "be required to pay at least the minimum price for sugar beet,
adjusted by price increases- or reductions to allow for deviations from •the standard quality.
The minimum price referred to in paragraph 1 shall correspond:
(.a) in respoct of beet for processing, into cu^ar covered by. i
Article 29(l) (a), to the ninimua price 6f the beet, (b) in respect of beet for processing into sugar covered by;
Article 29(l) (b), to the raininuia price of the bc&t ' produced outside the basic quota. . . .* •
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted, and the prico increases and reductions fixed, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40* S.': ~ ■ ■
The Council, acting "by a qualified majority on a proposal froia tho Corjnisoion,
shall adopt outline provisions dealing in particular with general conditions governing purchasing , delivery , reception and payment to v/hich agreements within the trade at Community, regional or local.; level and contracts conclu-' ded "between "bjryers and sellers of "beet must conform.
 Gondii;iano for purchasing sugar cane shall be goveined by agreements within the trade between cane growers and sugar manufacturers .
IJhere no agreements within the trade exir t , conditions of purchase , cjid in particular the minimum proportion of • fkc intervention pries for cano sugar to be paid by sugar Manufacturers * o sellers of sugar cane , shall
be determined in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40
Subject to the provisions of Article 30(2) , ostorage contoa for i?ihite nugar, raw sugar and certain syrups produced, as by-products of solid
sugar , manufactured from beet or cane harvested in the Corinunity , shall be reinbursed at a flat rate by the Ifcrabeijj States# , > .. . ...
IIcnbor States chall charts a levy on each tm^ar, manufacturer :
– per unit of v/cight of sJjar produced, aid
– por unit of Weigh'!; of syrups referred t- lxin the preceding subparagraph
produced and marketed in the natural ct- .ie ., ., .
The amount of the reimbursement shall be Irs. came'for the whole Comaunity,
The sano ralo shall apply to the levy.
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal form the Commission shall adopt rules for the application of 'J nragraph 1 .
rj chc-ll ba firzed each ycar xri The arioimt of the rcinburGoacirt and the 1Ij/y chr-ll bo fi:;ed each year i
accordance v;ith the procedure laid dovm in Article 40..Other rules for the. application of this Article shall bo adopted in accordanco viith the sano procedure. . . . ... .
Throughout the marketing year intervention agencies designated by ■ sugai^roducimg Member States shall be required, under conditions to ' be laid down in accordance with paragraphs 5 and 6, to buy in white ' sugar and raw sugar offered to then which has been manufactured from beet or cane harvested in the Community* , ■
Intervention agencies shall bay in at the intervention price valid for the area in which the sugar is looated at the time of purchase. If the. , .• quality of the sugar deviates from the standard quality for which the intervention price Was fixed, that pries shall bo adjusted by means of , price increases and reductions# . ■ • , , , V. r*i
It may be deoided t© grant denaturing premiums for sugar rendered unfit for human consumption. - ' ■, ■ v
Should difficulties arise in marketing sugar produced in the French overseas departments, appropriate measures shall be taken.' : '
It may be deoided to grant a production refund on the products listed
in Article l(l) (a), arid the syrups listed in Article l(l) (d) containing sucrose , used in 'the manufacture of certain products of the chemical industry .
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission , shall determines •
– general rules for the application of the above paragraphs}
– intervention prices for raw beet sugar?
– the products of the chemical industry referred to in paragraph 4»
Detailed rules for the application ©f this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the prodedure laid down in Article 40 and shall deal in particular with:
- the minimum quality and quantity requirements on intervention?
- the soales of' price inoreases and reductions applioablo'.on interventionj - prooedures and- oonditions for taking-over by intervention agenoies ; *3 - conditions for granting denaturing premiums and the amount ©f such
- conditions for granting the production refunds and the amount of such
Intervention agencies may only Bell .su^ar jat a price which iG higher than the intoinvention price valid in the : one where the cu^ar is stored.
price equal to or less than the intervention prioe in question i£ the sugar
– for aninal feeding, or |
– for e:q>ort to third countries in the nain.ral- state o? following , ' >
processingintotheproductslistedin/kmexII.totheTreatyore ( '• *i
into the goods listed in Annex I to thid'fto'nilation* .
Ths Council, acting by a qualified majorit oh a proposal from the Coarjicsion, shall adopt general rules for e cale of products which have been subject to intervention measures
Detailed rules for the application of this^Article shall bo adopted in accordance with the profiodure laid down in Article 40*
Tra&c vith third ccuiïiries
Imports or exports into or out or the CoaiA'unity of the products listed
in Article 1(1) (a), (b), (c) and (d) shall be made conditional on the
culnission of an import or export licence issued by ilcmbsr States to
any applicant irrespective of the place OP his establishment in the Community. . , ( I '
VJliere the levy or rofund is fixed in udvar •e , the advance fixing shall
be entered on the advance-fixing certifier
Licences shall be valid for a transaction effected within the Community
Tlio issue of cuch licences shall be condii :.onal on the lodging of a i
deposit guaranteeing that importation or iimportation i3 effected during the period of validity of the' licence ; thi |". 'deposit shall bs forfeited in whole or in part af the transaction is Inot effected, or i6 only par- iially effected vriLthin that period.
The arrangements provided for m this Article nay be extended to. the products listed in Article l(l) (e) in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40. Tho period of validity of licences and other
• detailed rules for the application of. this Article ,, which ciay include a tine limit for the issue of licences, shall b« adopted in accordance
Each year a Coianimity threshold, pries ylu:.11 "be fixed for white sugar, raw sugar and molasses. !
Tho threshold price for white sugar shalli "be the came as the target J!'
price for tho Community area having the largest Gurplus transport char­ ges, calculated at a flat L* area to the most distant deficit
.rate, from tha; area'to the most distant defi 'l
area in the Community* It shall apply to jthe same standard quality as the target price. |
The threshold price for raw sugar stiall be derived fron the threshold price
for vjhite sugar, a standard processing in; fgin and a standard yaeld "being taken into account.
It shall apply to the sane standard quality as the intervention prices for raw sugar. 1 . I
Tho threshold price for molasses shall "bell1 GO fixed that receipts for sales of molasses nay reach the level of irndertakings'• receipts'whjfacch are talcen into account pursuant to Article 4 when minimum prices for "beet are being fixod. It shall apply to a standard quality.
Tho Council , acting "by a qualified niajority on a proposal fron the
CouiTiisDion, shall fix the threshold prices at the same time as the. (
derived intervention prices.
The standard quality for molasses shall be determined in accordance xvith tho procedure laid down in Article 40* • - "' '
 A cif price ehall bo calculated for a Corcmunxty frontier crossing point for whito EUf^ir, raw nufjar pjid rcolnorcn. Tide price shall "bo calculated
on tlio basis of the nost favourable purchasing opportunities for each product on the world rcarket, bacod on quotations or prices on that market, corroctod to allow fax* any deviations from the irtandard quality for which tho threshold pries io fixed .
IJhoro freo quotationa on tho world market are rat a determining factor
for the offer prico end where that prico is^ lower than world market- prices, a special cif price calculated on this basis of tho offer'prico
chall bo cubntitutod , solely in rocpect of tho "laporto in quootion , for tho cif price . .
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on oqaroppaal fron tho • Corraission. eliall dotermino the 'frontior cror;oin,j point.
Detailed rulea for calculating tho cif pricoo cball bo adopted in accordance vrith the procedure laid down in Article 4_0» The correotive amounts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be fixed in accordance vrith the same " procedure . .
 A levy shall be charged.on imports of-the products liBted in Article l(l) (a)» (*>)» (c) and (d). .
The levy on white sugar and raw sugar shall "bo equal to the threshold price lees the cif price. . ' v '• •
The levy on raw sugar ohc.ll, where necessary, be adjusted according to the yield. The levy on white sugar shall be charged on imports of raw sugar for purposes other than refining if that levy is higher than the-
levy applicable to rav; sugar. If the levy on white sugar is higher than */'
the lew on raw sugar, raw sugar for refining shall be subject to
.r customs control or to an administrative- inspection offering equivalent
The levy on the products listed in Article l(l) (b) shall Ije calculated at a standard rate on the basis of the sucfrese content of each of these '
For purposes ither thrjfmtlie manufacture of sugar, partial exemption from . the import levy nay bo allowed as a temporary ueasure in special instance in accordance with the pr-^edure laid down in Article 40. 1
The levy on the products listed in Article' l(l) (c) and '(d) shall be . calculated: . _ ' • .
– either on the basis of the sucrose content, (incliiding othor sugard
expressed as sucrose) of the pfx>duct concerned, fixed,where appropriate at a standard rate, and the levy on white sugar,
– by subtracting the cif price of nolasses from their threshold price.
Tho levies applicable to maple sugar and maple syrup falling within \ t heading No 17*02 «f the Common Customs Tariff shall, however, b® limited to the amount resulting from application of the'duty bound within GATT.
Dotailod rules for tho application of jthia Article , including tho margin
vrithin vhich variations in tho factors! uccd for calculating* tho Iova* do ■I
not require any alteration of tho lovy¥ tihnll bo adopted in accordance vrith tho procedure laid clotm in Article 40*
The levies referred to in tin3 Articld rjhall "bo fixed "by tho Conrainoion»
The levy to "be'charged shall "be that applicable on the day of importation.
The levy may, however, be fixed m advance for imports of the products listed in Article l(l) (a) and (c). '
In ths.t event the levy applicable on the day on which the application «/
for the licence is lodged, adjusted on the basis of the threshold price
in force on the dixy of iuportation, shftll be applied to inporto to be effected during the validity of tho licence , provided the party concerned BO requests when applying for the licence and in any case before 13rhours.
A premiiua ta be added to the levy may be fixed at the same time as tho
The Council , acting "by a qualified majority on a proposal' frtin the Cor,mission
shall adopt rules for the application of this Article;, in particular it shall decide upon- ths conditions under' which advance fixing take place and the rules for fixing premiums. • ■ • •••. , V • '
I/here the conditions referred to in paragraph .3 exist , a decision to apply. „. the system provided for in paragraph 2 shall bo taken in accordance with
the procedure laid, down in Article 40. Cfcice these conditions no longer
exist, the measure shall bo repealed in accordance with tho sane procedure.
It nay be decided in accordance with the sane procedure to apply the systera
provided for in paragraph 2 in. whole or in part to each of the products t.. listed in Article 1(1) (d). • ..
Detailed rules for the advance fixing shall:'be adopted in accordance with the procédure laid down in Article 40.
The premiums shall be fixed by the Conaission. '■ •4
Vlhere it appears from an examination of the market situation that diffi­
culties exist owing to the application of the provisions concerning tho
advence fixing- of ttitt levy, or if s-ctofe dajtffftcul>£i?eff: ar.ee likely -io ari'se-> it may be deoide, in accordance with the prooedure laid down in Article
/;0, to suspend tho application of those provisions for as long as is strioly necessary# .
In cases of extreme emergency -the Cormissxon nay, after examining tho ..
situation in the light of all the information at its disposal, decide i
to suspend advance nxmg for not nora thin three working days. Licence applications coupled vjxtli advance fixing which are lodged during the period of suspension shall not "be accepted. • , ...
1. Where the sugar supply of the whole Community or of one of its regions is unlikely to continue to "be guaranteed at prioes "below the threshold prioe, provision may "be made for an export levy to be charged on the product in question.
The levy shall a^LyiJ/when the oif prioe for white sugar or raw sugar is higher than the threshold prioe.
Unless the Council adopts other provisions in accordance with the proce­ dure laid down in paragraph 3 , the levy to "be oharged , as appropriate , shall he that applicable on the day of exportation#
2. When the oif prioe for white sugar or raw sugar is higher than the threshold price, it may be deoided to grant a subsidy on imports of the produot in question# .
3. The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt rules for the application of paragraphs 1 and 2*
4« Provisions corresponding to those of paragraph il and to the miles for
its application may be adopted for the produots listed in Artiole 1 (l)
(b), (o) and (d), in accordance with the procedure laid down in Artiole 40»
5# Detailed rules for the application. of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the prooedure laid down in Artiole 40#
6. The levy resulting form the application of this Article shall be fixed by the Commission*
1* Each sugar manufacturer shall hold in stook throughout the marketing
year a quantity of sugar which may not "be less than 10 % of his actual production or 10 $ of his "basic quota, whichever is the smaller# This minimum stock must he the property of the sugar manufacturer in question and must be free of all commitments#
Derogations may "be provided for in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 4*
2. Depending on the market situation, it may he decided » (a) to release all or part of the minimum stook, I.
(b) that all or part of the minimum stock must "be offered for sale. Sales conditions, including a maximum price for the sale of the sugar ooncerned , may he laid down#
3# The Counoil , aotmg by a qualified majority on a proposal form the
Commission, shall adopt general rules for the application of this Artiole. These miles shall provide in particular for the payment of a
sum of money by those sugar manufacturers who do not comply with the provisions of this Artiole#
4# Detailed rules for the application of this Artiole shall be adopted in aocordanoe with the prooedure laid down in Artiole 40#
To the extent necessary to cna"ble the products listed in Article l(l) (a),
(c) and (d) to be exported in the natural state, or in the form of goods listed in Annex I to this Regulation, on the "basis of quotations or
prices for tho products listed in Article l(l) (a) and (c) on the world market , the difference between those quotations or prices and prices within theCommunitymay"becovered"byanexportrefund. /' '
The refund shall "be the same for the whole Community. It may be varied . according to use or destination. « . . '
.... ./?..••• . .V Tlie refund shall be granted on application qy the party concerned-
The refund for raw sugar may not exceed the refund for white sugar.
.' '' •' .'\f When the refund is being fixed, particular acoount shall to tcilcon of the /
need to 'establish a balance between the use of Community basic products in the manufacture of processed goods for export to third countries and the use of third country products' brought in under inward processing'
The Council , acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission shall adopt general rules for granting refunds, for fixing the amount of such refunds, and for fixing such rofunds in advance. , •
Refunds shall be fixed at regular intervals in accordance wit/i the prodedure
laid down in Article 40. t/here necessary the Commission may, at the request of a llenber State or on its own initiative, alter the refunds in the inter­ veningperiod. . : .
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission shall adopt choral rules applicable to refunds where these are awarded by
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in 'accordance with the prdesdure laid dovm'in Article 40.
1-Jhcro it appears from an examination - of the juurkett situation that • difficult '
to ths application of the provinion.-? cnncernin-* the GCLV^ics
fixing of the levy , - or if suoh difficulties are likely to arise ,, if. may be
decided, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Artiole 40, to suspend the application of those provisions for as long as is striotly nessary#---
 Ill cases of extreme emergency the Comraiaeion. may, af&or examining the situation in the light of all the information - at its disposal , decide to Biispond advance fixing for not moro than three v/orking days. \
Liccncti applications coupled with advance fijdng which are 'lodged during the period of suspension nhall not "be accepted. • '
1. To'the extent necessary for the propor working!of the common organization
oSy'the market in cu^ar, the Council, acting byia qualified, laajority on a proposal frora t he Commission, nay prohibit, ih whole or in part, tho UGO
of inward processing ai-rangcnents in rospect cf: *.•!
- tho products listed in Article 1 (l) which are intended for the raanu- fac&ure of the products listed in Article 1
- and, in special instances, the products lisi id in Article 1 (l) which ιI
are intended for the manufacture of the good8*-listed in Annex I tb'this
The general ruloa for tho interpretation of the Conrjon Curjtona Tariff
and tho Bpoclul ruleo for itu application shall apply to tho tariff ' claosification of products covered "by this Regulation} tho tariff neiaon- dlaturo resulting froa application of this Regulation ©hall "bo incorporated in tho CoaTEan CuBtoma Tariff.
Savo o,a etherwioo provitlod in thio Regulation or \-;horo derogation there-
fron is decided by tho Council, acting by a qualified majority on a pfro- J0
pooal froa tho CoEEOiBsion, tho following Ghall bo prohibited! • v*
– the? levying of any custoras duty on tho produots listod in Article 1 (l) (a) and (d)j *•
- the levying of any charge having on offoct equivalent to a ouotons duty;
– tho application of my quantitative restriction or laeasmro having' equivalent effect.
Tho restriction of import ©r export licences to a cpooified category of thbae entitled to receivo thern Ghall bo one of the moaourea considered t>,s
having effoot equivalent to a quantitative restriction*-, "
If, "by reaoen of imports or exportc, tlio Comnunity Barkot in one or noro of the pro&uctc listed in Artiole l(l) exporienaoa or is threatened with serious disturbances which may endanger the Objectives set out in Article 39
of tko Treaty, appropriate nor.nuren rccy DO Fpplied in trr.do with third countries until cueh oieturbcuice or threat of dictvirbrlice has oeaeed. ,
Tho Council, actin^by a qualified majority cp a proposal froci the CeianiBsion
cihall adopt detailed rulos for tho applicatiJ «. cf thio para^rnph end dofino tho caoco in which and the limits within \;hioh Ileabor States way taicd pro- tootive neaaureo. .... » M
If tho situation mentioned in paragraph ^ m-ioofj tho CoramiGoion Ghall, at tho requeut of a Konbor State or on its own initiative, docide upon tho neoeaoury moaourenj tho measures Dha.ll bo cc i^unioatoci to tho Heal)or Stateo -.
I''* cmd shall bo inaodiately applicable. If tho jÇoraaieoioii rocoivesa recjuost
from a Morabor Stato , it ahell take a dfccicic 1 therein within twenty-four
houra following rccoipt of tho request.
xho ceauures decided upon by tho ConuaisGion taoy" bo referred to tho Counoil' by any Member Stato within a period of throo working-dayo following tho dcy on wh.loh they wero co-raunioated . Tho Council , ohall coot without delay . Acting by a qualifiod aajorityj it may wnorod. or ropeal tho neaoureo in ■ • • quootion. ' : '1 • "
Artioles 23 to 30 shall" apply for tho 1975/76 to 1979/80 marketing years
1« A basic quota ohall bo fixed for oach undertaking which during -the 1974/75
marketing year used its basic quota on its own behalf.
2. This basic quota shall be equal to the average annual sugar production of the undertaking concerned, considered to be such pursuant to the provisions of Regulation n° 1009/67/EECt during the 1968/69 to 1972/73 marketing years multiplied by the coefficient 0.93» '
However, this basio quota may not be lower than that for the 1974/75
3 » The Council , aoting by a qualified majorityon a proposal from the ■"r- Commission, shall fix tho basio quotas referred to in paragraph 1 and / adopt general rules for altering these quotas* V • ■" " -
In accordance with the sam6 procedure, the Council may derogate from abovementionned paragraphs fo* the period referred to in Article 22.
4* DetailedIrules for the application of this"Article shall be adopted in - '•*" I(,•
accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40* . • .
marketing year. 1
1.Eachundertakingforwhichabasicquotahasbeenfixedmay havea maximum quota equal to ito baoio quota multiplied by a coefficient.
2. For the 1975/76 marketing year tl\e coefficient referred to in paragraph 1
The coefficient for the 1976/77 to 1979/80 marketing years shall be fixed N
at tho same time as the target prioe in-accordance with the procoduro laid ♦'»
down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty, acoount being taken of the trend"Of"" production from the point of view of specialization and marketing opportunities.
l» Subjeot to Artiolo 20 and tho provisions of paragraphs 2 tind 3» the quantity of sugar produoed in exoess of the maximum quota fixed for on undertaking in any given marketing year shall not be disposed of on tho itatemal market and must bs exported in tho natural state before 1 January
following tho end of the marketing year in question. • • - .• . •
2. Und'vlr an international sugar agreement and buMeot to the commitments */
entered into by other developed oountries equivalent to those entered • -
into by the Community, if there is a surplus on tho world su^ar market
. botlv-^he -obligation to export and the possibility of exporting sugar ■ produced over and above the maximum quota may be restricted. In that oase,
the disposal.of all or some of the Eugar in question on tho internal marcet- i
may be authorized under conditions still to bo determined.
3# Articles 8, 9» 16 end 18 shall not apply to the quantity referred to in • paragraph 1 which is not carried forward' to the following marketing year pursuant {fco Artiole 30. o' '
However, by way of exception, it may bo decided to apply Article 16 toe .'I..the extent necessary to guarantee the Community's sugar supply.
In that case, it shall be determined at the same.time that all the sugar
in question may be disposed of.definitively on the internal market without .the charge provided for in paragraph 5 being levied. ' . .
. Tho Council , acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the
Commission, shall adopt rules for the 'application of paragraph 2. •••; .■Λ
. Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in
accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 40. These detailed
rules shall provide in particular for the levying of a charge on tho sugar in question if it was disposed of on the internal market or not exportH in tho natural state before the date given in paragraph 1.
Tho guaranteed quantity shall be equal to hitman consumption in the Community, expressed as a quantity of white sugar, during a period still to be deter­ mined . less the quantity , expressed as white sugar , imported on preferential
terms during the same period from the developing countries referred to in; - ...
Protocol N° 22 to the Aot and from India. ..
When' the oaloulation referred to . in the first subparagraph is being made
- the total losses mentioned in that subparagraph shall bo reduced by tho –
amount of the speoial export levies, r-nnu • .
– quantities outside tho maximum quotas and quantities carried forward to
the next marketing year pursuant to Artiole 30 shall be ignored.
The production levy map not , however , exceed a maximum amount . ■ rr~/ .
basio quota by Community undertakings.
1. Subjcot to the provisions of Article 30, Member States oholl impose a
produotion levy on manufacturers of sugar which iB outside the basio quota but within the maximum quota.
2. The production levy shall be calculated per unit of wfcight by dividing total looses incurred in marketing the quantity produced in the Community outside the guaranteed quantity by the sum of the quantities produoed outside the
4. If the production levy is less than the maximum amount referred to in paragraph 3» sugar manufacturers must pay beet sellers the differenoo
between the maximum amount 'of the production levy nnd its actual amount , up to a percentage still to be determined. ,
The amount to be paid per metric ton of beet shall be fixed for beet of a standard quality.
This amount shall be,adjusted by the prioo increases and reductions referred to in Article 5* i
5. Sugar manufacturers may require cane sellers to reimburse the production levy in reopoot of a quantity of cafte corresponding to the quantity of
sugar." on which, the prodttcit&sas. rsi ftp to a percentage still to
Member States shall satisfy themselves, on the basis of the information supplied by sugar manufacturers, that : •
(a) the payment for the beet, and .
(b) the sum of the amounts reimbursed to manufacturers by oane sellers
satisfy the relevant Community provisions*
7» Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted,
and the amount referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 4 shall be determined, in accordance with the procedure laid ddwn in
The Counoil, acting by a qualified, majority on a proposal from tho
CommiBDion, shall fix : |
- minimum prices for beet outoido the basic quota for tho areas referred
- the percentages referred to in Article 26(4) and (5)jJ
- the maximum aiaount of tho production levy calculated in such a way that «
the minimum priceB for ^ eet outoido thtjlbaaio quota are respeoted , i•'
at the same time as the derived intervention prices . j i
Sugar manufacturers may "buy beet intended for the production of sugar in
excess of the maximum quota fixed for the undertaking concerned at a prioe which ia lower than the minimum prices for beet referred to in Article 4(l)• • . .
However, in respect of the quantity of beet .purchased corresponding to the <«
quantity of sugar :
•• disposed of on the internal market pursuant to the second subparagraph
– oarried forward to the following marketing year pursuant, to Article 30» the sugar- manufacturers in question shall, where appropriate, adjust t
the purohase price BO that it is at least equal to' tho minimum price ,r, referred to in the first indent of Artiole, 4(l)»
In contracts for the delivery of "beet for the manufacture of sugar,, beet ehall "be differentiated depending on whether tho quantities of
sugar to be manufactured from it arc : j
(a) within the basio quota;
(b) outside the basio quota but withir jbho maximum quota: (o) outside tho maximum quota.
rs shall inform the Member States For each undertaking, sugar manufacturers oliall inform the Member' S
in which the undertaking concerned produces sugar of : \ (
- the quantities of beet referred to tinder* (a) for v/hicta pre-sowing ;
contracts were signed and the sugar content on which these contracts were based; •. ... .. ' '
- the corresponding yield expected. 1
Member States may require 'additional i iformation to be supplied to them .
By way of derogation from Article 5(2)(b) and Article 28(l), pjny sugar
manufacturer who has not signed pre-sowing delivery contracts for- ■ ' ' a quantity of beet equal to the basio quota, at. the minimum price for beet referred to in the first indent of Article 4(l)» shall be required to pay this minimum prioe for all beet processed into , sugar in the ; undertaking concerned. ..
The Council, acting by a' qualified majority on a proposal from the Commission, ahall adopt general rules for the application of paragraph 1
Detailed rules for tho application of- this Article shall be ddopted in accordance with tho procedure laid down in Artiole 40. As far as •' paragraph 2 is concerned, they Ehall take tho oarry-forward effected " pursuant to Article 30 into account. .
Where tho provisions of Article 30 apply, e&oh undertaking may carry
forward that part of its production whip'h is outside tho basio auota,
uptoamaximumcorrespondingto10$oj^thobasiocruota, tothofollowing marketing year to be treated as part oft, that yearfis production. \v
ITo production may bo carried forward to! .the 1980/81 marketing year*. 0
Undertakings nay oarry forward part of their production to tho following \fi• f-
– they have notified the Member States jbono&jned before ,1 February of the
cruantity to be carried forward; *
–theykeeptherruontitycarriedforsariA,.instore*'from1<February''to y •1
31 January of tho following year; storage costs for this pei«iod shall •.-: ■ not be refundod under th6 provisions M»f Article 8. >•- –
Hovever, as regards undertakings situated in tho French departments of -
Guadeloupe and Martinique, in tho first indent of tho first subparagraph
tho date "1 February" is roplaoed by "1 I-Iay". and, in tho Becond indent of;
the said subparagraph "1 Fobruary to 31 January" j.s replacod by "L May to
30 April". If total production at the end. of tho marketing year in cruostion
is less than' the estimate mado at tho time tho decision to oarry over; may-'.;-',
be adjusted before 1 August of the following marketing year With retroaotive
– payment for beet used to manufacture the cruantity of sugar oarried forward; – contributions by beet or cane sellers towards the cost of storing tho
– agreement between beet or cane sollers and sugar manufacturers as a
preconditions for carrying forward.
shall ba adopted by the Counoil acting by a oualified majority on a proposal from tho Coranisnion.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted ' in. s.ccor<?anc<5 vith the procs^urs leid tfoni in Article 40.
The requioite provisions to prevent the inigar market being disturbed of i
an alteration in prioe levels at the change-over from one marketing year to the next may be,adopted in acoordance with tho procédure laid dovm in Artiole 40*
Member States and tho Commission cha|.l communicate to each other
the information necessary for iraplonxmting this Regulation# Rules for I. i
tho communication and. distribution o.f ,'Buch information chall bo ddopted inaocordatio©withtheprocedurelaicj. down in Article 40.
A Management Committee for Sugar (hereinafter called the "Committee'!) shall be established, consisting of representatives of Member States and presided over by a representative of the Commission.
Within the Committee the votes of Member Statoa shall be weighted in oocordanoe with Artiole 148(2) of the Treaty# The Chairman shall not vote.
1. Where the procedure laid down in this Article is to "be followed,
the Chairman shall rofer the matter to the Committee either on his own
initiative or at the request of the representative of a Member State.
2. The representative of the Commission shall submit a draft of the measures «/
to be taken . The Committee , shall deliver its Opinion on such measur9s within t
a time limit to bo set by the Chairman according to the urgency 6f the questions
under consideration# An Opinion shall be adopted'by a majority of forty-one votes.
3. The Commission shall adopt measures which shall apply–immediately.
However, if these measures are not • in accordance with the Opinion of the Committee , they shall forthwith be communicated by the Commission' to the : Council. In that event the Commission may defer application of the measures which it has adopted for not more than one month 'ffom the date of such comnrunioat ion »
The . Council , acting by a qualified majority may take'a different decision- within one month. • . ■
The Committee may consider any other question referred to it by its Chairman eithei* on hi3 own initiative or at the request of the representative of tt
X* The provisions concerning the financing| of the common agricultural policy
shall apply to the produota listed in AIrticle 1(1)•
2, Artiole 40(4) of the Treaty end the provisions adopted for the application >
of that Artiole shall, as far as the Guarantee Section of the Europecan
Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Funlil| iso concerned, apply to the FPrench *j
overseas departments in respect of the jiarlceto IJI the produots lasted
Goods' liGtedTin Article l(l) which are manrjfaotureA or obtained from products to which Article 9(2) and Article 10(l) of jthe Treaty do not appljr ehall not
he admitted to free circulation within the ;Community.
 Save as otherwise provided in this Regulateon, Articles 92 to 94 of the Treaty i
Bhall apply to tho produotion of and trade ] in the products listed in Article l(l )
/. . ' Regulation shall" be BO applied that appropriate account' is 'taken at the same time, of the objectives set out in Articles 39 and- 110 of
the Treaty#
•••>'•«* \ v/, -4 ,r♦•.'»<?W ^ r"*»*v* *1^••'v*-*»/n***v r-"*• Should transitional measures bo neoessary to facilitate transition to the
system established by this Regulation, in particular if the introduction of the new system on the date provided for would {jive rise to substantial
• difficulties, such measures shall be adopted in accordance With the procedure laid down in Article 40» They Bhall be applicable until 30 Juno 1976 at the
"'lv'This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following'its
All references to artioles of the said Regulation are to be read'in conjunction with the table of equivalence given in Annex'II. u "
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety end directly applicable . in all Member States#
publication til the Official. Journal of the European Coisnunrtiss* ■<.•.i
2« It 'shall apply from 1 July 1975» with the exception of :
– Articles 6t 7» 23, 24» 29 and 46, which shall apply immediately on the
entry into force of this Regulation for the 1974/75 marketing year/ and - Artioles 31 to 36, whioh shall apply froijL 1 January 1975* , f
4* All references to Regulation n° IOO9/67/EEC must boUnderstood as referenoes
to this Regulation#. . .'»
3. Regulation n° IOO9/67/EEC is repealed with effect from 30 June 1975*
for *thc Council •*.
Doooription of gooàa
C. White chocolate
Chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa
Preparations of flour , moal , starch or malt extract , pf a kind uccd ac infant food or f&r dictic or culinary -puipo–
cog , containing leoa then 50$ by weight of cocoa . .
Pastry/, biscuits , cakon and othor fine "bakers' wares , , whother or not containing cocoa in any proportion
JTatural yeasts (active"or inactive); preparod "baking powderst
l<bod preparations not elcevjhore Epocified or included
Lemonade , flavoured fjpa yatora and flavoured aerated vrators , and other non-alcoholic beverages ,, not including fruit and ^
vegetable juices falling within, heading 20.07 /'i
. Vermouths, and other vines of frech grapes flavoured with
A. Active natural 'yeasts t II. Bakers' yeasts
Spirits (other thai those of hooding ITo 22.63); liqueurs and other cpirituoucj bcvcragoa ; compound alcoholic preparations (known ac "concentrated ortractq") for tho manufacturo of beveragee :
Acyolic alcohols and their halogenatod, sulphonatod, nitrated or nitro sated derivatives 1
Description of floods
Aoetr.la and homiacotals mid ci3i£lo or conplox c:cy,^cn~func-» tion acctalc and horoiacctals,''end their halosonated, Eulpho– natcd , nitrated or nitroD&todj derivatives t
Ilonocarboxylic acids raid their anhydrides , hnlidcs , peroxides
end peraci&s, end their haloijaMriatoed, Bulphonntcd, nitrated or nitrosatcd derivatives ! \i
«« Anhy&ric corrpotrndr, of nannitol or corbitol , exolusling
Saturated acyclic tiono Jarboxylioacids1 «
– IJannitol estere and orbitol estero
Polr/carborylic ncida w.id thni 7 anhydrides . .halidoD , porrjrcidôs
: ■ aad perabide , end. their halo^bnated, culphohated, nitrated or'
»• Itaconio acid and its salts and ostoro
*•" •Carhoxylie acids with alcohol,' phenol , aldehyde or ketono •
function end other single or complex o:cygen-funotion carboxy–
lio ncida rsid their anhydridoo, halidoo, peroxides and peracida,
and their liulogenated. tatlphonated, nitrated or nitrosatod dérivâtivc01
– Glyceric acid , £lycollio acid , cacchnronic oaccharoni0 acid, hepfcaoaccharie acid and their salts
A. Carfcoxylic acido with alcoliol function : .
I. Lactic acid rvnd its nnlta caid cetera IV. Citric acid'Gild ita Gaits and Onto!*?
exVIII. Other1
laaltol and isonaltol
oiirtarfi , cl:onicr.lly ethera and sugar
pure , other than micros© and lnctocoj pu~ir 6nd'- their* salts , other thani pnoduct-s of
29 «41 and 29*42c
– Sorbose and its salts and esters 1
Chcmiciil produotc and preparations of "tJio chcnicnl or nlliod inu.;:,-;trie.a (including t'"o:.-a conr;i:rbin~ of mi:rtur?,rj of natu«* ral products ) , not elcowhoro cpo'cified or included ; rasidual producto of tho chemical or alliod induutricn, not olsouhoro specified or included: •
Q» Ibitndiy cor© bimloro "baeed on synthetic rcoina .
ox T* Othert / .* . – Sorbitol cracking . produci; a ' : . ' '
RcftUla-fcion 11° IOO9/67/SHC ' .■ / This Rerulation
on the"fixing and alteration of "the basic quotas for rsuo-ar
Having1 regard to tho Treaty establishing the European Economic Community;
Having regard to Council Regulation (E3C) No /74^ of ••••••••» on the common orgroiization of the ■ market in sugar , and in particular Article 23(3 ) thereof; . :
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Whereas Article 23(3) of Regulation (E2C) ITO /74 lays down that tho Council should fix tho basic quotas for each undertaking and adopt general miles and any derogations ?
Y/hereas Article 23(1) of the said Regulation makes provision for a formula
for fixing quotas whereby the basic quota is obtained by multiplying the average
annual sugar production of the undertaking concerned, considered as such pur~ suant to Regulation ITo IOO9/67/HBC, during tho 1058/69 to 1572/73 marketing
years by a coefficient of 0.93, provided that such quota is not lovjer then that for tho 1974/75 marketing year; ■
Whereas, in order to take account of any changes in tho structure of the\sugar industry or of beet grov;ing»iprovision should be made ;
- for the basic quota for each undertaking to be reduc.ed'by
a quantity not GKceeding, for the entire period from 1 July 1975 to 30 June I9SO IQf/o of tho basio quota fixed originally; •
 Whereas the object of the original fixing of basic quotas ior individual undertakings riight be jeopardized in the event of the merger or transfer of the undertakings , the transfer by an undertaking of one of its factories -.,or the closure of an undertaking; whereas consideration should therefore be given to altering the basic quota of the undertakings concerned;
Khereas it is essential that alterations in the basic quotas originally fixed be prevented from damaging the interests of the beet a , cane growers concerned
 1* The not 10$
The 2. The (a)
basio quota for each undertaking may be reduced by a total quantity exceeding, for the entire period from 1 July 1975 30 June 1980» of the basic quota fixed for each undertaking by this Regulation.
quantity deducted shall be allocated to one or more other undertakings. basio quota shall be altered only ifs
the struoture of the sugar economy of the regions concerned is thereby improved ;
the interests of beet or cane growers concerned are protected. The basic quota of an enterprise producing cane sugar shall not be reduced unless the deduoted quantity is allocatedto other enterprises producing cane sugar .
Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 2 and 3» the basic quotas referred to in Article 23 of Regulation (EEC) NO ••••••/74 shall "be fixed
for each undertaking ,in terms of white sugar as shown in the Annex. Article 2
alternation of the basio quota pursuant to this Article shall be made
within the framework of the detailed rules of application.
It shall occur only at the request of the Member State involved,after consultation between the latter and the beet and cane producers and the sugar manufacturers oonoerned.
1. The basic quotas shall bo altered in tho event of tho merger or tr?Jisfer of undertakings , the transfer of factox'ics or the closuro of undertakings .
2. In the event of the merger of undertakings, the basic quota for tho resul­ ting undertaking shall be fixed at a quantity equal to the sum of tho
basic quotas allocated to the undertakings concerned prior to their merger.
3. In the event of the transfer of an undertaking, the basic quota for tho transferred undertaking shall bo allocated to the transferee ^undertaking or , v/here there are soveral undertakings , it shall bo ditributed among them on the basis of the production they have absorbed.
4* In the event of tho transfer of a factory the baoic quota for tho under­ taking transferring tho factory chall be roducod and tho basio quota for
the undertaking^or undertakings^acquiring it shall be increased by the quantity deducted in proportion -to the production absorbed. ,
5. Where en undertaking ceases to operate in circumstancos other than those . referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 its basic quota nsy be allocated to one or more undertakings in proportion to tho production . to be absorbed .
6» Measures in respect of basio quotas can be taken pursuant to this Artiole only insofar as the interests of the beat or cane growers concerned are proteoted *
Transfers of basic quotas from enterprises producing cane sugar to others producing beet sugar shall not take place*
7« The alterations referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted under the detailed rules of application* A
The measures referrod to in Article 3 shall tako effect, when the merger,
transferror closure , as the case may be , occurs {
( a ) betv:een 1 July and 31 January of the following year , for the marketing year concurrent with 'that period}
(b) between 1 February and 30 June of the same year, for the marketing year
Fo:4 the purposes of this Regulation :
following that period. • , .
( a ) "merger of undertakings " means i •.
the consolidation into a single undertaking of two or more undertakings,
each with a basic r/uota; , .
(b) "transfer of an undertaking" moans t .
transfer of the businnsa of en undertaking with a basic quota to one or more undertakings; •
(c) "transfer of a factory" means :
transfer of ov.-norship of a production unit , including" all - the plant requiered for manufacturing sugar , to one or more undertakings , resulting in partial or total absorption of the prodiiction of the transferee
tu • This Regulation shall enter into forcd on the third dcy following its \
publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Regulation Ho 1027/67/E2C1 ahd Regulation (E3C) Ho 1898/682 shall be ropealed Kith effect from 30 June 1975» • <
of v
Β. Kauwgom ' 0« witte chocolade
Onsohri j ving
ex B* andere 1
ex V* andere 1
OoiohriJving
U Q* andere •
,•* -V ^ai'mtifcnd for Lanabruget finuor
production théoriquement
consommation totale,
(Communication by Mr. LARDINOIS)
- This question is on the agenda of the 3'"0th meeting of the Commission on Wednesday 2nd October 197^ under item 21a.
 Draft nroT^onal for a RBGrlJLATIOïï (S::C) 0? TiTJJ COUTOIL
on the ' firing and altoration of the basic. quotas for sugar
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community;
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) HO /74^ °f on the common organization of the market in sugar, and in particular Article 23(3) thereof ;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Whereas Article 23(3) of Regulation (EEC) ITo /74 lays down that the Council should fix the "basic quotas for each undertaking and adopt general rules'and
Whereas Article 23(l) of the said Regulation makes provision for a formula
for fixing quotas whereby the basic quota is obtained by multiplying the average annual sug?-r production of the undertaking concerned, considered as such pur­ suant to Regulation !Io 1009/67/E3C, during the 1Jo0/69 to 1972/73 marketing years by a coefficient of 0»°3, provided that such quota is not lover than that for the 1974/75 marketing year;
YJhereas, in order to take account of any changes in the structure of the sugar
industry or of beet growing^i^i~^r-prrr^i«ul^i'^g-y-ioul^u^-aj^rag4-orj. > provision should be /Jn-vl£/ for the basic quota for each undertaking to be reduced' by
a quantity not exceeding, for the entire period from 1 July 1975 "to 30 June 19^0, ltti of the basic quota fixed originally:
 Whereas the object of the original fixing of basic quotas for individual undertakings might be jeopardized in the event of the merger or transfer of the undertakings, the transfer by an undertaking of one of its factories or the closure of an undertaking; v;hereas consideration should therefore be given to altering the basic quota of the undertakings concerned;
flfiie^tta^t-hejsa^ioulr^e^stlUc'-r^provisions to govern sucn^lt'ei^atibft^B^'that the system of fixing quotas is not jeopardised; whereas^to this end, such operations should in particular^be restricted to a single agricultural region .corresponding in 'pi'dnciale" to the torritory^oi"'"a'XoTnBe'r ''Bt'hte)i
IJhereas it is essential that alterations in the basic quotas originally fixed 6^
be prevented froa damaging tne interests 01 the beet -said cane growers conceme
Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 2 end 3, the basic quotas - referred to in Article 23 of Regulation (liSC) IR> ....»./74 shall be fixed for each undertaking in ior:?.3 of v:hite sugar as shown in the Annex.
1, The basic quota for each undertaking nay be reduced by a total quantity not exceeding, for the entire period from 1 July 1975 to 30 Juno 19S0, 1C ofthebasicquotafixedforeachundertakingbythisRegulation.
o-ivey- The cmantity deducted shall bo allocated to one or nore
2» The basic quota shall be altered only if : (a) the structure of the sugar economy of tho
concerned is thereby improved";
3. Any alteration of the basic quota pursuant to this Article shall be Eade
vdthin the franei;ork of the detailed rules of application.
It shall occur only at the request of the Henber State -eetiwrrre-et after
consultation betx-ean the latter and the beet and
1. The basic quotas shall "bo altered m the event of the merger or transfer of undertakings , the transfer of factories or the closure of undertakings .
2. In the event of the merger of undertakings, the basic quota for the resul­ ting undertaking shall be fixed at a quantity equal to the sum of the
basic quotas allocated to the undertakings concerned prior to their merger.
3. In the event of the transfer cf an undertaking, the basic quota for the transferred undertaking shall be allocated to the transferee •; 'undertaking or, Khere there are several undertakings, it sha.ll be ditributed among them on the basis of the production they have absorbed.
4» In the event of the transfer of a factory the basic quota fcr the under­ taking transferring the factory shall be reduced and the basic quota for
the undertaking^or undertakings^acquiring it shall be increased by the
quantity deducted in proportion to the production absorbed. »
5» Where an. undertaking ceases to operate in circumstances other than those referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 a*id 4 its basic quota nay be allocated to one or more undertakings in proportion to the production to be absorbed.
6. Measures in respect of basic quotas can be taken pursuant to this Article only insofar as the interests of the beet tswi cane growers concerned are protected -region*–^
7 » The alterations referred to m paragraph 1 shall be adopted under the £<&.<? c'YnW ~ detailed rules of application. -
The measures referred to in Article 3 shall take effect; when the merger, transferror closure , a3 the case may be , occurs :
(a) between 1 July and 31 January of the following year, for the marketing year concurrent with that period;
(b) between 1 February and 30 June of the earns year, for the marketing year following that period.
Article 5 the purposes of this Regulation ;
"merger of undertakings" means :
the consolidation into a single undertaking of two or more undertakings, each with a basic quota; .
"transfer of an undertaking" means :
transfer of the business of an imdertaking with a basic quota to one or more undertakings : . ' ' ■
"transfer of a factory" means : .
transfer of ownership of a production unit, including all the plant requiered for manufacturing sugar, to one or more undertakings, resulting in partial or total absorption of the production of the - transferee undertaking ;
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Offichl Journal of the European Communities.
Regulation llo 1027/67/320^ shd Regulation (E3C) ITo 1893/68^ shall be ropealed with effect from 30 June 1975• •
