Grnndo-Brota/me - Départiront of Bnployment Gazette
QroSbri'iazmlm - Departocnt of aaployaent C-astctie
This matter is »n the agenda far the 333th meeting •f the C*mmissi*n. «n Tuesday 25 March 1975*
Ccpies t* : the Members «f the C«mmissi*n Mr. SHANKS
 Mem» fr»m the Secretariat-General
Associated services :
D.G. Economic and Financial Affairs Statistical Office
- for opinion - Légal Service
Consultation in progress Consultation in progress Consultation in progress
The Secretariat-General is transmitting the document to DG I, III. VI. VIII, XI, XVI, XVII.
The objective of the attached paper is to present the Coanission with
a programs of work to be developed as regards employment in the light of
the current crisis and of the concerns of the Standing Goasittee an Baq?loyment. Following a brief analysis of the currant situation and employment trends,
the paper attests to identify the major questions currently dominating employment policies and the role that the Community night play in relation
to these questions*
The work prograaae outlined (section 4 of the paper) deals with, in addition to statistios, actions to be developed in the field of forecasts, research on the labour market, the conoertation of employment policies and prospective*.
The majority of these actions fall within the normal competences of
the Commission and thus do not require the taking of speoific decisions by
the Council. However, the development of employment forecasts requires a Communication to the Council (annex I) t it is desirable that the Council
be kept informed of the progress of work in this field (the original mandate
was given some time ago by the Council to the Commission - in 1970 - and now made current . due to the crisis ), # and give its formal recognition
to the group on employment forecasts which appears necessary at the current
The prograaae of research into the labour market will ncessitate financial resources currently included under article 98 of the budget . The Council is thus requested to take a simple decision transferring funds within the budget. The attached paper (annex II) justifies this request and indicates the nature of the work envisaged.
 . Finally, the concertation of employment policies, which should develop within the informal framework used to date* is also the subject of a Cosnunioation to the Council 4annex III) for two main reasons. Firstly, concertation is one of the important points contained in the £ocial Action ^rograme and in the Council resolution on this programme. Secondly, the close co-operation between national and Community administrations implied
by cancertation will gather momentum if such eo-operation could receive a political stimulus from the Council. For this reason, the Cosisunication
concludes with a suggestion inviting the Council to lend its support to the orientations outlined.
Pwiml for a Research Programme and Acticns on Employment Research
- Articles 117 and 118 of the Treaty of Rome and the Seeial Action Pregramme
Research Pregramme and Actiens en the ©velutiea ef the lalieur market •
3. Description of Action
- Comparative studies aiming at a better interpretation at Community level of major tendencies in the labcur market
- Support te research institutions in mealier eeuntries te improve the metheds used fer analysing and foreasting employment with a
▼iew te alleving ceerdinatien ef such work and the eemmunieatian •f the •uteeme te member States.
A draft eemmunieatien te the Ceuneil replying te the requests made by it ceneerning employment forecasts will sherthly be submitted te the Cemmissien. It will highlight glebal fereeadts and their brekdevn by sectors, en ferecasts by age and sex and en ferecasts by level ef qualification.
Obieet ef the Action
a) To fill the forecasting requirements ^arising cut ef certain sections of Community Action (free circulation and immigration, Seeial Fund, Employment Social Action Programme for youth, women, elderly workers, oommeroial policy)|
 h) te fill the requirememta af matiemal adnimiatratiema far eeerdimatiem ef research im the emplaynemt field;
e) te permit the Cemmiaaiem te hare a better fcaae fer ita dialegue with the Seeial Partmers.
The preaemtatiem ef a diatimet budgetary lime ia juatified hy the meed te limk eleaely the werk plammed with eertaim majer efcjeetirea ef Cemmumity Aetiea ia the empleymemt field aad ky the aeed te plam aa eperatiemal layeut allewimg ia eleae eeataet with aemfcer eeumtriee, the memiterimg ef the pregreaaiea ef aueh werk.
- medium-term diaaggregated aeai-glekal prejeetieaa (eeafreatatiea
- female eapleyaemt teademeiea aad yeath eapleyaemt |
- ionigratiem fereeaata far the mext 10 yeara;
(thia list will he fiaiahed after Ceuaeil eeaaultatieaa hare teem eempleted im the eemmumieatiem relatimg te empleyaemt fereeaata)*
 Dr. HILLERY's PRESENTATION OP WORK PROGRAMME IN THE FIELD OF EMPLOYMENT
(the English version of that document will follow as soon as possible)
1 . The development of employment forecasts was adopted by the Council, in its Resolution of 21 January 197*S as a priority objective of the Community's Social Action Programme.
2. The Council had previously discussed the question of forecasts at the end of 1970 and stressed the need for a detailed plan based on a Commission draft. In this communication, the Commission aims
to set before the Council the plans and guidelines which it intends to implement.
The need for, and limitations of, forecasts
3. The Commission is well aware of both the need for employment forecasts, and their limitations. The need for them is shown in
numerous areas of Community activity, such as employment policy and the free movement of workers, vocational training, the Social Fund, and regional and commercial policy; it also appears to be of considerable importance to economic and financial policy where
these in charge need information and forecasts concerning developments in the labour market as a basis for their decisions.
b. The limitations of forecasts are a result of both uncertainty •nd lack of detail. Employment forecasts suffer from the same
shortcomings as other economic forecasts, in that they cannot take account of all the factors which will determine actual outcome.
Moreover, certain important factors may change after forecasts have been drawn up, and thereby change the trends forecast.
5. However, any decision about the future is based en forecasts
- whether explicit or purely intuitive. Explicit forecasts have
two major advantages over intuitive forecasts or over simple assumptions. Firstly, they imply the strict and rational identification of as many relevant factors and information as possible. Moreover,
they make it possible, when the initial assumptions have to be modified, to determine the effect of these modifications on
forecasts. The normal forecasting procedure is to update results at regular intervals in the light of information available, in order to provide a continuous monitoring of future prospects.
6. One of the main difficulties in the development of forecasts lie6 in the number of potential users and the diversity of their needs. The latter differ considerably depending on whether the information must be provided for general economic policy guidance, decisions about education or training, or industrial and regional policy. Of course, the research projects necessary to meet these different needs are similar but they follow different orientations, particularly with regard to methods and disaggregation. The allocation of the limited resources available must take into account these differences, in order to achieve the best possible compromise between the various needs.
Scope of employment forecasting work at Community level
7« In its conclusions of December 1970, ' the Council invited
the Commission to draw up a complete and detailed plan in order to :
" (a) stimulate and develop research work on forecasts of the
" working population of the Community, i.e., forecasts of
" available supplies of labour in the Community ;
(1) Conclusions on the outcome of the Conference on employment problems (Doc. 2384/70 (CONFSOC M») of 18 December 1970).
 " (b) intensify the exchange of information and experience in order " to provide mutual assistance between Member States ;
" (c) carefully identify the Community interest in this work ; "(d) define the ways and aeans of achieving these objectives.
8. Since 1970, the Commission has held various consultations in Luxemburg, Erlangen and Brussels with experts and users of forecasts. These contacts have made it possible to develop certain guidelines and undertake certain actions*
9. Knowledge of the underlying trends of labour supply and demand is still as necessary as ever, and the impetus to draw up forecasts iii broadly based; nevertheless, recent developments have brought changes in emphasis in the Member States and altered Community priorities.
10. In view of the growing seriousness of unemployment problems within the Community, the emphasis has moved towards the
identification of the areas of growth and decline in the demand for labour.
11. Furthermore, the renewal of the Social Fund, decided in 1971, and the consequent opening of Article b, has given priority to
forecasts concerning certain industries and groups. Moreover,
the economic disturbances following the energy price increases have greatly increased the difficulties of employment policies
at national and Community levels. This will increase in the
future the structural problems which aggravate current short-term difficulties. These changes must be analysed carefully, especially where they affect, for example. Community action on immigration.
12. At the momeat, the Member States (and also the Commissiea) publish official short-tern estimates (12-18 months) of employment as part of their short-tern macro-economic forecasts. Ia some cases, these forecasts are broken down by industry or sector.
In the majority of the Member States, other short-tern forecasts are available fron academic, quasi-public or private institutions.
13. Medium-term (5 year) employment forecasts disaggregated
by a number of industries* are available in most countries, although they vary considerably in their scope ans methodology. These estimates usually ignore short-term fluctuations and concentrate
1*t. Medium and long-term estimates of labour supply disaggregated by age and sex are available ia all countries, based on population trends and taking account, to varying degrees, of changes in
the demand for labour, and ia the ages of entry and retirement
from the labour market.
15/ In line with one of the recommendations of the Erlangen Conference, the Commission has established a dossier on the various
employment forecasts available in the Community.
16. In addition, various forecasting work is being carried out in Member States to assess future developments in the supply of, and demand for, specific skills and qualifications. The Commission has initiated research to establish the extent and scope of
such activities; the results will be available at the beginning ef 1975-
 17. Despite the extensive methodological and statistical work which has already been undertaken in the Member States, certain problems exist which inhibit the wider use of forecasts.
18. Firstly, existing national forecasts, however similar they may be in broad concept , vary considerably in terms of definitions, assumptions, scope and methodology. The usefulness of some forecasts is, therefore, limited and comparisons between countries often hazardous.
19. Secondly, national forecasts should be closely linked to assumptions about general economic trends. The international environment plays an important part here; but it is taken into account very differently from one country to another. It will, therefore, be important to establish appropriate links with
the medium-terra macro-economic forecasts drawn up at Community (-ij To yvV rZ>j /if/*./■>-*^
K*taAt# thy//1 Uflt*ufk
Current work and the Commission's proposals
20. The Commission began certain work concerned with these forecasts a year ago using the limited means at its disposal.
The following paragraphs 6et out :
- the main areas of current work
- the main lines of development within them.
(1) Council Décision of
(a) work being carried out
21. For short-term forecasts, the emphasis is on :
- the rapid collection of available national forecasts concerning general trends in the demand and supply ef labour ;
- the qualitative identification of trends in particular industries or sectors.
It is intended to organize periodic contacts with the national services and both sides of industry in order to examine and augment this information.
22. For medium-term forecasts, current activity centres around the preparation of projections ©f both supply and demand for labour over a five-year period, disaggregated respectively by age and sex, and by industry.
An initial "trial" projection, covering about ten branches, will be available in the spring of 1975• It covers the priiod
up to 1980 and is based on information derived from national forecasts supplied by a group of forecasting experts.
The results will be assessed during 1975* and updated periodically.
2?. Alongside this, the Results of the research commissioned to establish an inventory of forecasts of demands for different skills will be analyzed in order to ascertain whether it is possible :
- to forecast trends in the demand for certain professions or trades
(b) by using forecasts of employment in the various industries
in conjunction with data on the demand for different skills from the various industries.
2b . It is planned to improve the work in all these areas by taking the following actions :
- comparing the employment forecasts with the macro-economic projections of the Community ;
- extending the number of sectors covered by the forecasts and investigating some in depth ;
- comparisons and confrontations of national results in order better to assess individual projections.
25. In the longer term, this aim can be pursued in a more fundamental manner :
- by improving the forecasts and the methodologies ;
- by assessing the means of incorporating the effects of trade and labour movements into the national forecasting models.
26. At the same time, the Commission intends to play an active part in the development of the forecasting "infrastructure".
In particular, this can be achieved through the following activities :
- the setting up of a mutual information system covering, for example :
the registration, translation and circulation of studies and the results of forecasts ;
- encouraging the training and exchange of specialists between countries :
 collaborating with the Statistical Office of the EEC in the development of statistics, for example, in the creation of a Community nomenclature of professions and trades*
The tasks indicated can be undertaken without formal decision of the Council * They rely , above all , on a close
co-operation between the national services and the services of the Commission* Their cost is therefore limited.
The programme of work outlined above can be started immediately. Its progress will need to be examined periodically
in the context of the harmonization of employment policies on which the Council has decided .
In order to develop this work to the full, the Commission intends to establish a group of experts on employment forecasts. This group, formed notably from representatives of the national services responsible for employment forecasts, will maintain close contact with other groups, especially the Study Group on medium-term economic prospects, and the groups responsible for short-term economic forecasts .
r- In the past the Council and the Standing Committee on y/w< facSin. )
BBaarwTeyBtnhar^; an several occasions, stressed the importance thej attach to a better knowledge af the Community's employment market. The 1971* Social Action Programme included this problem in its priority tasks and tho present state of employment gives increasing importance.
For the last fifteen years considerable progress has been Bade as a remit of the patient work of the SGEC and the interest and co-operation of national statistical institutes.
Despite this progress. Community discussions on enploynent have only occasionally been able to make use of figures concerning the problems in question. The information available is fragmentary, out of date or unsuited to the problems raised - whether may be the employment of women, unemployment amongst young people, levels of qualification or sectoral analyses'of employment.
The Comsittee of the Social Fund has had to 6top using unemployment figures as guidelines because of the heterogeneous nature of the figures. Short-term economic analyses often come up against difficulties in separating structural and short-term economic causes of unemployment, a subtle distinction, but one which is essential for guiding economic policy.
Similarly, Member States concerned with comparing results or structures with their partners are hindered by doubts regarding the comparability of figures or the content of the concepts used.
 The Commission is anxious to see this gap between the statistics available and the needs of Community policy bridged.
The remedy for this, of course, includes ittprovement of basic statistics, for which a plan of collaboration between the national institutes is being drawn up. But it also assumes an effort to break down the barriers between the main national and community users : only a comparison of their points of view will make it possible to assess more accurately the underlying institutional differences, and to explain to the Community authorities the way in which the various data collected are to be interpreted.
The chief weakness in using these data arises from the infrequency of contacts between the various countries concerning
the results of national studies, and the lack of comparative studies based on this research. The Commission therefore advocates
a series of measures intended to increase understanding of the Community's employment market. These measures would rely on existing services or institutes in the Member States; they would aim to encourage their co-operation, promote specialization and circulate their results selectively and overcome linguistic barriers .
For this purpose, the Commission proposes a programme of priority research projects en the labour market in the Community. It would consist mainly of comparative studies based on existing empirical analyses in the Member States. The aim of the research would be to draw up comparative surveys or to analyse and compare national findings, and also to promote studies on less explored aspects of the labour market which might be of general interest. Both types of research should be of an empirical nature, and exclude purely theoretical studies. Emphasis should be put, in the first few years, on comparative studies, which are rare at present, despite their great political interest at national and Community levels.
 To help the Consnission in the nanageaent ef this progratnne, a research aanagetaent Conaittee should be set up. It would be Bade up of persons in the Heaber States experieaced ia the oanageaeat ef such studies, aad chosea particularly froa leaders •f catianal services aad research iastitutes.
The tasks of the Coaaittee vould be :
- to develop precise guidelines far the research prograaae ;
- to identify specific areas of Conauaity interest ;
- ta appraise individual research projects , proposals and results .
The prograaae would be financed frao the narnal Coamissioa budget uader a separate heading ta identify the particular method af naaageaeat and central suggested.
A first outline of areas suggested for the prograame is set out in the Annex to this document.
This list is only indicative. The research management Committee will be responsible for establishing the actual programme •n the basis of work which is both available at national level,
and of interest .
1 * Economie and labour market analysis of unemployment
Cyclical , structurait frictional , seasonal unemployment • étudiés and assessments of :
- measurements used for each concept
- uses for économie and social policy purposes.
2 . Probiens of tmeaployment
Identification of different groups in terms of :
- level of qualification
and other relevent characteristics, for the development of appropriate policies.
This would cover, for example, their respective
- susceptibility to, unemployment.
Analysis of employaient structures
The assessment of employment structures, in particular
the rates of employment activity in relation to the sectorial structure and geographical dispersion of employment.
Kobility in the labeur market
The extent of
- industrial / sectorial - geographical
5. Traimne and employaient
The extent and type of training and re-training in the labour market, and its impact in relation to the demand for different levels and types of skills.
6. Studies in relation to employment forecasting
Studies on trends and forecasts of employment within different branches of activity, or within different skill groups,
in order to assist directly in the work on Employment Forecasts.
^ - Above allt vigorous and coordinated actionjaust b.e^ta£eri at Communityleveltodealvi-th'theproblemofemployment. Thisifill.,require the Member States, in conjunction with the organisations x«>ncernedt~ t& coordinate their employment policies,in an appropriate manner and to set priority targets. 1 . 4 - *
This deelaratiea shews the special iapartaaoe, uader preseat ciecuastaaces, ef the itea ia the Seoial Aetioa Pregraaae dealiag with thecoordiaatieaefeapleyaeatpelciiea(l). Thepreseatserieus eapleyneat situatiea ia the Ceaauaity is aet simply the result ef
cyclical factors . It is alse the oeasequeaoe ef the preleaged iaflatieasufferedbytheMemberStatesferseveralyears* Furthermore
the redepleyaeat ef reseuroes aecessitated by the iaorease ia eaergy
prices sad ourreat iadustrial aad seoial ehaage will call for a considerable effert te adapt the labeur markets ef the Ceaauaity. (l)
With the Seoial Fuad the Ceaauaity has aa eperatieaal iastruaeat whese influence is begiaaiag te ear fruit} a specific proposal is beiag prepared aiaed at develepiag the actiea ef the Fuad ia the restructuriag beiag oarried eut as a result ef the ourreat crisis.
The Sef&taal Fuad,«a its side,will allew fer a streaghteaiag ef Ceaauaity actiea ia the stiaulatiea ef iavestaeat aad eeeaeaio activity
(l) - See decuaeat SEC(74) 1358 "Ekpleyaeat £rebleas sad the eaergy situatiea N
- see decuaeat SEC(74) 4943 "The prespects fer Eurepesa Seoial Policy" drawa up fer the Seoial Ceafereace ef Deoeaber 1974*
in the least favoured areas ef the Coaurunity.
However the influenoe which the Cenaunity can exeroise en employment through its operational instruaeats is Halted.
In reality the development ef eapleyaeat in the Meaber States depends en the interplay ef an extremely varried range ef influences among which a particular importance should lie given te :
- en the ene hand natienal pelieies aiaed at bringing about a better
balance en the labeur aarket theough aotions influencing both labour supply and demand}
- on the other certain Ceaaunity pelieies (suoh as the integration ef Rarkets, ceaaeroial policy, aid policy) primarily developed te
Beet other objectives but exercising a major influence en the development and . pattern ef employment. Through these
notions the Cemaunity has created a substantial interdependence between natienal employment pelioies whose significance is net always sufficiently appreciated.
The diversity ef these influences and the aultiplioity ef the responsible institutions whe aanage thea are not unconnected with the difficulties encountered for several years in the developaeat ef a clear conception ef Ceanunity action as regards employment.
The reestablishaent ef the work if the Standing Ibpleyaent Conmittee creates the possibility ef Achieving in practioal teras the objective
ef coordinating employment underlined in the Seoial Action Pregraane.
This opportunity calls for an active contribution te the probleas
 connected with eaplqyaeat fr»a the Commission, the Ceuaoil ni the aatienal authorities. The efforts aeeded will iaply a serious and
concerted pssparatien by the Commission and the Member States on the substance of issues to be discussed .
It is the view ef the Coaaissiea that a vigorous aad coordinated action in the field ef employment depends en the ene hand cof aa effort at dialogue and the clarification ef cenoepts and en the ether en a series ef presiss tasks te fee undertaken in oeeperatien between the Coasimity and the national levels .
The coordination at Community level ef eaployaent polioies > object and content
The aia ef employment policy la te contribute along with general •eensoio pelicgr te the establishment ef as high a level ef enpleysent as possible while assuaing the qpxalitative end quantitative Batching ef supply and demand en the labeur market. In erder te attain thiB objective it provides services and contributions designed to
ensure workers access te employment , the protection ef eaployaent » the fulfillment at work ef their professional sad personal oapaoities sad the iapreveaent ef their working conditions* These goals are developed with the participation and the collaboration ef the Seoial Partners ., along pj?oc£dures and means conform to the traditfo&s and
legislations of each country. Although viewed for a long tine in an asses essentially defensive sad medial role,eaployaent pelioy is sere sad
mere assuaing the function of anticipating risks to eaployaent.
Thus eaployaent polioy tends, in aest Meaber States to he
ooncemed with the supply ef aaapower sad with the labour aarket. Questions dealing with the deaaad for labour sad the oreatiea of aew eapleyfttant are mainly dealt with by decisions relating to economic policy,
industrial policy and regional policy.
At a naticn&l level tkLs dibitsie» ef tasks is oe»j»le*i;«d by a pera&n<»nt tfialegue allowifif those r*a$«/",sible fer such job creating policies to near the point of view of those responsible for
At the Caaaunity level en the ether hand, these reajfceiaei'fele for national
employment ^slicy can only express their views through indirect channels whether through ©f their national oelleaguse *me are respc/ftsil'le f««r eooneraic, Induetrial ©r regienal policies er threu^h
the interwc.iary ®f their opposite numbers inside the Commission.
1° aa intensive oesrdinatieB Bust be established between these responsible at a ivatisnal level for AS regard aotieas fcr
which thsy are ras^aRei'ble espeoi&lly th® j»r«ttaoti«a of eapleyaent, the conditio?;© ©f o&lmoe em the labour market and the iastrura«nta te
direct the supply ef y?y*ever» It should alse attempt te develej an active policy ef employment «a a coordinated basis)
2® the oaerdiRatiea ef instruments dealing with the for ra<an»'r.-.'v>r depends essentially en ether C®m®tmity and national bodiee .«• The Commission is taking internai
■oasuras te take iate accent aere Ejrstssatiimlly th® es^l«7®^mt dimensisa @f ethar Cossrunlty policiesj this erientati«m is already usaer under ws^y, bath en the internal level (tecMioal work) a&d «n the
level of relations with the Social PartR*:^. Purthersere it might be useful , when necessary , to inform those responsible at a national level
ef Cofflrauni'&y policies, sad in certain ca*se® te consider Joints Meetings with these responsible far ether scoters*
II. Priority tasks for the coordination of emplayaent policies
For the reasons which have just been mentioned, the work programme proposed "below for coordination is devoted essentially to questions of 'balance on the employment market and the supply of labour. It concerns the tasks which the Commission ceuld tackle in 1975 and 1976 without prejudice to the proposals which it is preparing or will develop for
the Council .
These tasks concerna-four are as :
- mutual information on the problems, the prospeots and the priorities for eaoh country as regards employment}
- an examination it common of the employment problems of certain categories of workers (wooen, young, migrant workers) and the identification of priorities and of means for Community activities
in their favourj
- examination and stimulation of the motion of national and Coiaaunity instruments of empleyment policyt
- reflection on the major problems of the more long term development of employment in the Community and of responses thus called fer. *>
The work proposed below has been identified with the help of the experience ecquired through the meetings which the Commission has held in 1974 with the General Directors for Employment. During a preliminary discussion of this work, they have expressed positive reactions and made certain suggestions which the Commission has taken into account in the present communication.
The Commission also expects to specify further the contents of these orientations during the next meetings with the national administrations as well as with the Social Partners.
1. Problems and priorities in the Member States
Periodical exchanges ef view en the employment situation and en the short tent outlook have been taking place for a year.
The Camaission has teen able to improve the colleotion of statistics on the national employment situation and expects to present brief reports to each coordinating meeting.
A special effort will be deveted to the identification and discussion of those areas and forms of action which each Member
Ceuntry fudges as priority for the coming year. Such aa exercise, helping the better understanding of the diversity ef national situations, would contribute usefully to the determination of future priorities
for overall sooial action in the Community, and more specifically fer the action ef the Sooial Fund.
2. Problems associated with aortain categories of workers
The development of actions by the Commission for women, the
young and migrant workers shmuld be the subject ef both broader and more concrete exchanges of views with the responsible national authorities for employment. These exchanges should in particular have a major
contribution to make to the coordination of immigration policies proposed by the Commission.
Similar exohanges are required to .bring about a Community
action t* promote youth employment - an important preoocupation and one which is cos!9©n now to all the member countries.
3. National and Community 'instruments of employment policy
Alongside actions by oategory the role ef the oentral instruments ofemploymentpolicyshouldbeexamined. Asafirststagethefollowing questions should be looked at :
 a) national placement services* The passage to an operational stage of the European system for the compensation of supply and demand of labour (SEDOC').
established by the
régulation an free oirculatian prevides fer supj>0rtlng actions at the
which in aany countries are undertaking a modernisation yregraaee and
which are being severely tested by the present crisis - have on many occasions (shown their interest in a technical cooperation to be
promoted <■- bj the Ceaaissien (problems of aethods ef registration, compensation aad inferaatien)* Such a cooperation - interupted since
1272 - should, be taken up a^ain, in this difficult and unspeotaoular field, whose central role in the balancing of employment
is often underestimated*
b) the relatien between vecatlenal training and easloyaent. In this field alee, the orisis baa hit the Meatier States at a aeaent when the national eyeteas were in full transforation. The oreatien ef the 'European Centre fer Vocational Training on the ene hand the
needs of the Social Fund en the ether give this field a oenorete Cowaunity diaensien. The question ef whether the aotien ef the Consultative Ceaaitteeffer Veoatienal Training eeuld net he fed
by complementary work en the relatien between eapleyaent and training should be examined* Several specific questions, arising out of the experience of the Social Fund,deserve te be examined together (in
P*rti°ul®i> role ef income support systeas , while workers are being readapted, the use ef veoatienal training capacities in tiaes ef eoonoraic slack, eto •••)•
°) g^ployrBent legislation and the redeployment ef the work force
In the current crises aany Member States are investigating the contri­ bution which different legislative er contractual instruments can
aak& to the necessary redeployment ef aanpower resources . Could
a rearrangement of present measures on the length of work and the age of retirement , contribute to the absorption
•f full or partial unemployment through a better sharing-#ut »f
the deaand far manpower - and at what excessive .cost to itfce economy ?
Is it desirable to intensify the stimuli and the financial supports forsectorial,professionalandgeographicalnobility? Suchquestions
should faro the subject of a coramon examination by the responsible bodies in the Member States.
The present employment difficulties raise oertain "major problems
for the Community, quite apart from the immediate implications for<:the present situation. Theseproblemsespeciallyconcerntherealisationoffull employment in the new conditions of growth, the consequences of
the Blow-down in immigration for full employment ^sad the possibility of -enhancing industrial work.
A first report on the median term prospects will be available shortly. Thiscouldconstituteapointofdepartureforanassessment on the medium term problems raised by the need to balanoe employment*
At a later sta^e these reflections should be related to the
preparation of the next programme for medium–term economic policy where employment should in principle play an important part.
In the view of the Commission it is not necessary to setupnewinstitutionsinordertoaccomplishthiswork. Forthe moment it proposes :
- to pursue the regular meetings ef the Directors General ef Employment three or four times a year, following the practice ef laat year* These high level meetings should provide the general framework within which seme tecknioal meetings can take place. In particular they will discuss and specify the work programme}
- to consult aad bring together, as the aeed arises, experts or those responsible im the differe&t operatioaal areas mentioned ia the programme of woric.
The Commission however must draw the atteatiea of the Couacil to a wish expressed by the Direoters Geaeral of Ekpleymmnt. While stating
their preference to maintaia an informal character to their work, they thought it desirable to consider the possibility of Joint meeting» with other coordinating groups (especially the group concerned with medium terra economic polioy). The Commission has noted this wish, which it will take into account in due time in the course of development of the work.
The work outlined here should he clearly separated from the decision-making processes falling within the sphere ef the Counoil.
What is involved in fact are exchanges and confrontations of experiences and of viewpoints needed to broaden national assessments as muoh as
to enlighten the Coiaaission. This can lead from time to time to Community proposals or decisions; hut their essential contribution will often he at the level of informal oross fertilization. Even in this case
they will have contributed to the breaking down of barriers surrounding one seotor of natioaal life where acoess to the experiences of others
is particularly diffioult to obtain but strongly desired. They will also have helped to underpin in a more oenorete way the actions
which the Commission must undertake in the area of employment.
The Caieaiseion as£s the Council I
- to take note ef the freffrurae of coordination set eut in the
- t» &ive xtn a^reement te the werking netfceds erucfested)
- to confirm the importance which it attaohes to the coordination of national employment policies, as defined in the present communication, and. in particular tc the actions it identifies as a first stage for this coordination.
Irland - O.S.C.E. + Central Statistics Office
Revised text COM(75) 125 of 19th March 1975
WORK PROGRAMME IN THE FIELD OF EMPLOYMENT (Note from Mr. HILLERY)
This matter is on the agenda for the 335th meeting of the Commission, on Wednesday 16 April 1975*
the Members of the Commission
The objective of "the attached paper is to present the Commission with
a programme of work to "be developed as regards employment in the light of
the current crisis and of the concerns of the Standing Committee on Employment
Following a "brief analysis of the current situation and employment trends, the paper* attempts to identify the major questions currently dominating employment policies and the role that the Community might play in relation to these questions .
The work programme outlined (section 4 of the paper) deals with, in addition to statistics, actions to be developed in the field of forecasts, research on the labour marlcet, the concertation of employment policies and prospectives .
The majority of these actions fall within the normal competences of the Commission and thus do not require the taking of specific decisions by the Council . However , the development cf employment forecasts requires a Communication to the Council (annex I) : it is desirable that the Council
be kept informed of the progress of work in this field (the original mandate was given some time ago by the Council to the Commission - in 1970 - and
now made eilrrent due to the crisis ), and give its formal recognition to the group on employment forecasts which appears necessary at the current time .
The programme of research into the labour market will ncessitate financial resources currently included under article 98 of "the budget . The Council is thus requested to take a simple decision transferring funds within the budget. The attached paper (annex II) justifies this request and
^ indicates the nature of the work envisaged.
Finally , the concertation of employment policies , which should develop within the informal framework used' to date , is also the subject of a Communication to the Council (annex III) for two main reasons. Firstly, concertation is one of the important points contained in the Social Action
Programme and in the Council resolution on this programme. Secondly, the close co-operation between national and Community administrations implied by concertation will gather momentum if such co-operation could receive a political stimulus from the Council . For this reason , the Communication concludes with a suggestion inviting the Council to lend its support to the orientations outlined .
 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS FOR ANNEXE II Proposal for a Research Programme and Actions on
-Articles 117 and 118 of the Treaty of Rome and the Social Action Programme
Research Programme and Actions on the evolution of the labour market. 3. Description of Action
- Comparative studies aiming at a better interpretation at Community level of major tendencies in the labour market
- Support to research institutions in member countries to improve the methods used for analysing and forecasting employment with a view to
allowing coordination of such work and the communication of the outcome to Member States .
4. Object of the Action
a) to fill the forecasting requirements arising out of certain sections
of Community Action ( free circulation and immigration , Social Fund , Employment Social Action Programme for youth , women , elderly workers , commercial policy);
b) to fill the requirements of. national administrations for coordination of research in the employment field f
c) to permit the Commission to have a better base for its dialogue with the Social Partners .
The presentation of a distinct budgetary line is justified by the need to link closely the work planned with certain major objectives of Community Action in the employment field and by the need to plan an operational layout allowing in close contact with member countries , the monitoring of the progression of such work.
(Work programme in the field of employment)
1. The present employment situation and the prospects for the future now constitute one of the Community's main concerns. This matter calls for the Commission ^ special attention for several reasons * firstly , the
persistence of unemployment could Community, in particular since it measures ; secondly , the Community
seriously affect the cohesion of the
is liable to : provoke unilateral defensive has at its disposal various instruments
which, either directly (Social Fund anf freedom, of movement) , or indirectly (commercial policy), exert a considerable influence on employment trends; lastly, the resumption of activities by the Standing Committee on Enployment will require the Commission and the Council to take additional actions to facilitate its operation.
2. The Commission submitted to the Social Conference in December (l) a document presenting an overall strategy for the control of employment trendsinthepresentcrisis. TheCommissionhasalsosubmittedtothe Council proposals relating to certain aspects of employment problems (female employment and migrant workers); in addition it is studying the procedures for intervention by the Social Fund in the present crisis.
3. These proposals and measures, however, as well as those which will follow in due course, must be based on a coherent approach designed to improve and accelerate the analysis of problems, to" identify the areas where action by the Commission is urgently required and could be effective and,lastly,toprovidepointersforCommissionproposals. Suchwork should centre round the facts of the employment market and its tendencies, employment forecasting, and the conoertation of national employment policies. : ■ - -A ;
4. The purpose of the present communication is to inform the Commission regarding, the, work currently being undertaken by DG V in these areas and toputbeforeitaprogrammeofprioritymeasures, someofwhichmajr require a Council decision. • V
1, The employment situation and the prospects for the future
The number of fully unemployed persons in the Community rose by 2>1% during1974to3,987millionon1January1975« Theprospectsfor1975allow
for hope for a gradual reduction in this figure, but it will certainly «
be very difficult to reduce the number of unemployed to the Junuary 1973 level within a short space of time.
(l) Document SEC(74) 4943 - Prospects for European Social Policy - Working paper prepared for the Social Conference*
 Without going into a detailed analysis, one may observe that employment trends over the next two years will depend not only on the extent of economic recovery hut also on the reorientation of the
production system itself and the restructuring operations which will have to accompany this. Here, mention should he made of the doubts
surrounding the scope for action which would be available to a policy designed to stimulate demand; such scope for actions depends not only
on the overall production papacity of each country but also on the quality of this capacity, in terms of flexibility, and on the competiti­ veness of the production system.
* Underlying tendencies must also be borne in mind. Although the
deterioration in the employment situation became painfully obvious as
a result of ever-increasing inflation over the past few years and of .
the energy crisis, this trend had already begun some considerable time
ago. Since 1966/1967 unemployment rates had started to show an upward trend, albeit to various degrees , in most Member States .
A comparison of the averages for the period 1570-73t on the one hand,' and for the periods 1960-64 and 1965-69 (2) on the other shows that :
- four Member States have experienced a very substantial increase in the unemployment rate : the United Kingdom, Ireland, France and the.
Netherlands . In the two last-named countries , the average unemployment rate for the period 1970-73 was mare than double for 1960-64?
–^ in three countries (Belgium, Germany and Denmark) the unemployment rate remained virtually unchanged ; ■
- only in Italy was there a fall in the unemployment rate, which seems to result on the One hand from special demographic factors, and on the other by the system used to register unemployment in Italy, viz.
the exclusion of young persons seeking r* first employment and of workers registered in the Cassa d' Integrazione Guadagni . There continued to be no
(l) The Economic Situation in the Community, Document C0M(74) 1925* (2) Cf. attaches .table. .
This underlying deterioration was not solely due to regional imbalance. Italsooccuredinthemoreprosperousregionsofthe Community and, basically, reflects an imbalance between vacancies and job applications (l)« . Long before the oil crisis, this imbalance had led certain Member States to set up study groups on unemployment and
It might be asked whether the inflationary character of the • . economic policies pursued in the Community even before the energy crisis isnotoneofanumberoffactors connectedwiththeincreasing difficulty of maintaining a given level of employment and with the inadequacy of the structural policies designed to remedy this state of affairs, • . - .
The means by which equilibrium was.achieved on the employment market during the sixties should be,re-examined some of these means, such as immigration, have reached their.limit} on the other hand the stimulation of
overall demand can no longer be considered the pnnacea which it was too often thought to be.
2..The principal factors involved in action on employment
' Employment trends are the result of economio and social factors
; operating in very different fields (2). as a result, employment problems
usuallytakesecond:placetootherpolicies, Thoseresponsiblefor-; employment are thus all too frequently forced into rescue operations and measures pf an essentially defensive nature (security of employment, protectionism, eto •••)• (3). .
(1) This imbalance is illustrated by indices such as the development of
' unemployment among graduates, by the coexistence of high rates for unemployment and immigration, etc ...
(2) The demand for labour is determined by the overall economic trend : ..its distribution depends mainly on commercial, industrial and
regional policies. The supply of labour, on the other hand, is determined by demographic trends, training policy, social legisla­ tion and collective bargaining, placement methods and, in the long term, education policy.
(3) In the past the Community has suffered considerable harm from the very different interpretations given to the expression "employment policy". Forsome,itisrestrictedtomeasuresdirectlyaffecting the employment market (legislation, placement); for others, it also includes the creation of new jobs? for a third group, it ought to embrace all factors influencing employment in the medium term, including for example industrial policy and even the direction into which production is to be channelled.
In the present situation , a return to a more normal employment
situation would depend on various sets of measures :
- in the short to medium term : economic revival through the stimulation of demand, and a reorientation of production structures (measures affecting demand, on an overall and a sectoral level, and measures relating to labour supply);
- in the medium term : improvement of the quality of the labour supply and improved regional distribution of activities;
- in the longer term : progressive regulation of growth factors in order to take account, on the one hand,- of the criteria relating to quality of life and the desired improvement in working conditions and, on the other hand, pf the industrialization needs of the Third VJorldf dealing with
the rigidities in the employment situation in Europe in order to ensure
the success of such regulation, either by action to reduce such rigidi­ ties or by considering them as supplementary costs to be included in the structural options.
This yery brief outline shows not only the necessity but also the difficulty of moving from the defensive to the offensive in the > field pf employment.' It leads to two key questions :
1° the policy mix between instruments acting on demand and those acting on supply seems to have put the emphasis on the former over the past
10 years. Should this balance not be adjusted and, if so, how ?
2° the employment argument has very often been one of the major factors in important decisions taken with regard to economic, regional or industrial policy. Has this argument been used judiciously and based on sufficient analysis ? Has it not been used on occasion to serve the
 cause of short-term expediency rather than medium-term objectives ? Should there not be a substantial improvement in the data available to those responsible for such sectors when they wish to promote employment ?
3. Community responsibilities concerning employment t
, As*' regards the factors influencing employment trends, Community responsibilities closely overlap national responsibilities, (and their
extensions at regional and' local level). Commercial policy and interdependency (and their corollary, shared economic circumstances and growth) doubtless play just as important role as the measures taken by
Member States to balance supply and demand on the labour market by means of regional , industrial and social policies .
Compared with these ' indirect influences exerted on
employment by the common market the direct means at the Community's disposal - freedom of movement for workers and the Social Fund – seem limited or marginal. But they can be supplemented by a number of basic measures along the lines suggested by the two key questions posed in Section 2. . s
First of all, the Commission could encourage the rethinking and re- examination, already in progress in the Member States, of the policy mix resulting from the use of the various instruments for promoting
employment . This is , to be sure , a modest contribution , involving encoura- gfeijient in the disclosure and exchange of experiences rather than the initiation of spectacular measures. If, however^ judicious use is made
of the Standing Committee on Employment, it could produce significant
(l) For exampler mention might be made of certain decisions in the techno­ logical field (Concorde) and also macroeconomic decisions, which,
as far as employment is concerned, are generally based only on the development of the overall unemployment rate - while a few supplemen­ tary items of information (sector, age, duration) would make it clearer whether action should coneist in the stimulation of overall demand or in specific measures.
 Secondly , the Commission could , to a greater degree than in the past, explore the effects of Community internal and external policies on employment. So far such effects have generally "been assessed (if at all) from indirect information originating in the Member States or "by the largely intuitive reactions of DG V. It would seem desirable, and possible, even with limited means, to improve the Commission*s ability to analyse data through closer cooperation with national bodies.
, The following section outlines the measures which could be taken
in these two fields - some of them were in fact introduced several months
ago. The programme suggested is based on an analysis of the requirements studied or observed either by the Commission or by the national authorities} these requirements may be briefly summarized as follows s
a) requirements for Commission policy
- better knowledge of. the employment market and its problems? •
- Sooial Fund : better identification of the problems of each country
and of national priorities} ;
- freedom of movement : forecasting of migration figures and of needs
by sector and. by qualifications :
for régional policy
- short - and medium-term employment forecasts by branch : •
- better diagnosis . of the current situation
- implications for employment of economic forecasting?
 b) requirements specified by the Member States
- comparison of national employment forecasts .
- up-to-date information on the instruments of employment policy and their effectiveness
- exchange of data relating,to the forecasts by crualifications. »»
The basic tasks ahead
On the basis of the contacts which it has made and- the preliminary deliberations which it has had, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs considers that measures should be taken in the following fields :
Considerable progress has been achieved for several years, particu­ larly as a result of the SOEC survey of the iabour force. The structure of employment and its development are fairly accurately known, although sometimes only, after some delay . . The major difficulties occur in the comparison of one country with another (definitions of unemployment are based on soarcely comparable institutional criteria) and in the processing of economic data. Action to be taken could ts>ke three forms :
- improvement of national statistics : a plan for collaboration is being prepared by the SOEC
- more systematic use and analysis of current economic data at Community level (particularly for employment as a whole and by sector)
- more extensive use .of the data available at Community level.
Such forecasts should be treated with great caution. Their purpose is not to predict the future but to indicate probable, possible or
alternative trends. As such, they provide indispensable guidance and . call for close cooperation with national bodies.
Annex I , prepared for the Council , outlines the work already in progress and suggests certain guidelines for future work relating to the short and medium term . -
This work must, of course, be carried out in close liaison with work on short- and medium term economic forecasting.
c) research into the employment market
Improved knowledge of the employment market has always been a major concern of the Standing Committee on Employment. . - While studies of the most varied nature exist at national level , the Community has ,, until now, only made very occasional use of them. Action could take three forms : -
- comparative studies of the research undertaken in the various. Member States into this various aspects of the employment market (young persons , mobility , unemployment among graduates , shortages of certain
types of qualifications ) J , : -
- exchange of information between Member States concerning the results obtained and the research undertaken, and even the coordination of such research in some instances}
- the breaking down of barriers between research workers, referred to in some Member States as a "cultural stimulant".
In this connection it should be remembered that, as far as: training and placement are concerned, applied research and action are closely connected. ...
The budgetary appropriations for 1975 make it possible to accomplish these three tasks. DG V attaches particular importance to the
management of such research so -that it can be put to practical and effective use.
Annex XI sets out guidelines for the programme envisaged and the procedure for carrying it out.
The. Community already exerts a considerable influence over employment trends by using various"instruments (commercial policy,
Social Fund. etc.). Experience with the Social Fund has particularly demonstrated Ihe need for improved coordination of Community and
The concertation of employment policies is. 'not, therefore, merely intended to facilitate contacts between those .responsible for employment at national level; it must also assist the Commission, the Council and, on occasion, the Standing Committee on Employment to. carry out their respective tasks with full knowledge of the facts.
Work has already begun on this at the periodic meetings of the Directors General for Employment. It will be continued with their cooperation . '
Annex III >contains a draft of a first programme of work.
With such a range and depth of material at its disposal, the Community should be in a position to make a substantial contribution
(l) Cf. Conclusions of the second report of the European Social Fund.
towards an assessment of employment prospects. This would necessitate going beyond quantitative forecasts (while using these as a basis)
and investigating, in qualitative terns, the various factors likely
to affect medium-term employment trends. Tendencies in the inter­ national economy, the effect of purely national features, and the changing aspirations of workers are some of the factors from which the Commissioni*.- with a few carefully chosen helpers, might explore the employment problemsoffourtofiveyearsfromnow. Suchexploratoryworkwould. deal mainly yri-th:
- the principal problems posed in the medium-term by employment trends in the Member States; '
- the relative importance of the various instruments capable of influencing employment trends.
The Directorate-General for Social Affairs proposes to set up, in the very near future , a study group which would have this double task and would submit a first report by the end of the year.
The programme of work outlined above should provide the Commis­ sion with a base to improve its measures relating to employment and its contributions to the Council, the Standing Committee on Employment and the Member States.
Generally speaking, these proposals do not require extra funds from the budget and could be undertaken from the appropriations already madeavailable. 0ntheotherhand,theirsuccessdependsonadialogue
with the Member States, and in particular with the numerous competent
nationalbodies. Theirchancesofsuccesswillbegreatlyenhanced (
by the support of the Commission and the Council. A programme of work dealing with employment statistics i6 being prepared at the SOEC .
Forecasting, on the one hand, and the concertation of employ­ ment policies, on the other, .will be dealt with in two communica­ tions informing the Council of the work in progress and the direction which this is taking. The texts of both communications are attached in this document.
Clearly provision will have to be made internally for the appropriate liaison between employment forecasting, ^medium-term . economic forecasting and the Group for Medium-Term Economic Policy. The Commission could entrust' responsibility for making these provisions to
Mr. Haferkamp and Dr. Hillery.
Italy •
Netherlands i
, χ 2) Period 1970 - 73 (complété figures for 1974 not yet availaole;
(3) January - October 1974 (4) from 1961
(as io of "the active population)
 WORK IN THE FIELD OF MPLOYMENT (Communication to the Council)
The present employment situation and its future development are causing major concern in all the member countries. They call for
the Community 's special attention for several reasons . Firstly the persistence of unemployment is not only costly and dangerous from a social point of view "but it also seriously affects the cohesion of the Community and could provoke unilateral defensive measures. Secondly
the Community has at its disposal various instruments which either directly (the Social Fund and freedom of movement) or indirectly­ (commercial policy) exert a considerable influence on employment trends. Lastly ., - the resumption of the work, of the Standing Committee , on .
Employment will require thei Community to adopt a position on a number : of questions or to take significant actions in this field . , > . : ..■< /.
\The Commission has already submitted to the Social Conference -in December (l) a document presenting an overall strategy for the control of employment trends in the present crisis. It has also submitted proposals relating to certain aspects of employment problems to the. Council (in particular female employment and migrant workers). Furthermore it is preparing a new proposal dealing with the intei^vehtion of the Social Fund in the present crisis (in the framework of Article • 4 of Council Decision 71/66 of the 1st February 197l)»
However the-various actions which the Community is advancing must be based on a coherent approach designed to improve and speed-up the analysis ; of. problems , to identify the areas where action by the
Community should have priority and would be effective, and lastly to
provide guidelines for the content of its proposals. Such work assumes that the Community intensifies the efforts it has "been making to comprehend the employment market and its forseeable tendencies and that it undertakes actions to coordinate national- employment policies.
On each of these questions* the Commission has started a certain
number of works and envisages their further development as a priority in the neai* future .
This is the context of the three attached communications which the Commission is transmitting to the Council.
The communication dealing with the coordination of national ~ employment policies is particularly important in this respect..
This item, which is part of the Social Action Programme calls.foreclose cooperation between the national administrations and the Commission. The annexed document is "based on the exchanges of views held over the last year with the Directors-General for Employment. It proposes a short-term work programme and' asks the Council to give its political support in order to assure the development of the planned work.-
The communication dealing with employment forecasts presents, a brief balance-sheet of the work done over the past year, and which should shortly result in a first report' on the outlook in the member countries . It also indicates the orientations and the work methods which should allow a fruitful development of the work undertaken.
Finally the research programme of the employment market sets out the orientations to govern the use of the budgetary credits foreseen
for this purpose in the 1975 budget (article 3050,. "assigned provisionally under article 98)*
This programme is in the framework of the implementation of Article 118 and must be established by common agreement between the Council and the Commission .
 These different tasks are essential in order to allow the Community to "better fill its role in the current employment crisis -
and to ensure the test use possible of the Social Fund and the establishment of the working of the Standing Employment Committee on a sound footing.
The first two communications do not call for formal decisions from the Council. However the political impulse which the Council could lend would help the reinforcement of the cooperation between the national services and the Commission which is indispensible for the efficient carrying out of the work.
1 . The development of employment forecasts was adopted by the Council, in its Resolution of 21 January 19.7^, as a priority objective of the Community's Social Action Programme.
2. The Council had previously discussed the question of forecasts at the end' of 19?0 and stressed the need' for a detailed plan based '< on a Commission draft. Ih this communication, the Commission aims to set before' the Council the plans and guidelines which it intends to implement. ' '"I
The need for, and limitations of, forecasts
The .Commission is well aware of both the - need for employment , forecasts', 'and: their limitations. The need for them, is shown in f-j». numerous areas of Community activity,> such as employment policy and the free movement of workers, vocational ^training, the- Social Fund,
and regional and commercial policy; it also appears to be of considerable importance to "economic and financial policy where v
those in charge need information and forecasts concerning developments in the labour- market as a basis- for their decisions., . .
k. .The limitations of forecasts are a result of both uncertainty and lack of detail. Employment forecasts suffer from the same shortcomings as other economic forecasts', in that they "cannot take account of all the factors which will determine actual outcome. Moreover, certain important factors may change after forecasts have been drawn up, and thereby change the trends forecast.
 5- However, any decision about the future is based on hypotheses about future developments, whether there are formally expressed in quantitative terms or are at an intuitive or non formal level. Explicit forecasts have two major advantages
over- purely intuitive forecasts .or
assumptions. Firstly, they imply the strict and rational identification of as many relevant factors and information as possible. Moreover,
they make it possible, when the initial 'data ■ have to be modified, to determine the effect of these modifications on
forecasts. The normal forecasting procedure is to update results at regular intervals in the light of information available, in order to provide a continuous monitoring of future prospects.
6. One of the main difficulties in the development of forecasts lies in the number of potential. users and the diversity of their needs. The latter differ considerably depending on whether the information must be provided for general economic policy guidance, decisions about education or training, or industrial and regional policy. Of course, the research projects necessary to meet these different needs are similar but they follow different orientations, particularly with regard to methods and disaggregation. The allocation of the limited resources available must,:take intp- . account', these differences, in order to achieve the best possible ; compromise between the various needs. - .r
Scope of employment forecasting work at Community level
7. In its conclusions of December 1970;
the Commission to draw up a complete and detailed plan in order to stimulate and develop research work on forecasts of the working
population of the Qommunity, i.e«., forecasts of employment and the available supplies of labour in the Community and to
(1) Conclusions on the outcome of the Conference on employment problems (Doc. 238V70 (CONFSOC MO of 18 December 1970).
the Council invited
 intensify the exchange of information and experience in order . .
to provide mutual assistance between Member States. This will call
for the careful identification of the Community interest in this work and the definition of the ways and.means of achieving these objectives.
8. Since.1970, theCommissionhasheldvariousconsultations
in Luxemburg, Erlangen and Brussels with experts and users of forecasts . These contacts have made it possible to develop certain • guidelines and undertake certain actions.
9. Knowledge of the underlying trends of labour supply and demand is still as necessary as ever, and the impetus to draw up forecasts is broadly based; nevertheless, recent developments have brought changes in emphasis in the Member States and altered Community priorities.
10. In view of the growing seriousness of the unemployment situation the work should perhaps emphasise forecasts of the demand for* manpower on a sectoral basis.
11. Furthermore, the.r-enewal-of the Social Fund, decided in 1971 » and its deployment in the context of current economic
developments, has given priority ,to .
forecasts concerning certain industries and groups. In fact,
the. economic disturbances following. the energy price increases have greatly increased the difficulties of employment policies *' at national and Community, levels. This will increase in the
future the structural problems, which are added to the current short«-term difficulties.- These changes must be analysed carefully.
12 . At the moment , the Member States Cand also the Commission ). publish official short-term estimates ( 12-18 months ) of employment - as part . of their short-term macro-economic forecasts . In some
cases ,, these forecasts are broken down by industry or sector .
In the majority of the Member States , other short-term' forecasts
available from academic * quasi-public or private institutions .
Medium-term (5 year ) employment forecasts disaggregated
number of industries , are available in most countries , although
they vary considerably in their scope ans methodology. These estimates usually ignore short-term fluctuations ahd concentrate on underlying structural trends. • '
1*f. Medium and long-term estimates of labour supply disaggre-gated by age and sex are available in all countries, based on population trends and taking account, to varyiiig degrees, of changes in ~ v-:
the demand for labour, and in the ages of entry and retirement from the labour market .
16 . In addition , various forecasting work is being carried out ' in Member States to assess future developments in the supply of, > and demand for , specific skills and qualifications ; The Commission has initiated research to establish the '"extent and scJcipe 'of –
such activities; the results will be available at the beginning of 1975 .
In line with one of the' principle concrete recommendations "' the Commission has established a dossier on the various
employment forecasts available in: the Community.
 17« Despite the extensive methodological and statistical work which has already been undertaken in the Member States, certain problems exist which inhibit the wider use of forecasts.
18. Firstly, existing national forecasts, however similar they may be in broad concept, vary considerably in terms of definitions, assumptions, scope and methodology. The usefulness of some forecasts is, therefore, limited and comparisons between countries often hazardous.
19. Secondly, national forecasts should be closely linked to assumptions about general economic trends. The international environment plays an important part here; but it is taken, into account very differently from one country to another. It will, therefore, be important to establish appropriate links with ' the medium-term macro-economic forecasts drawn up at Community level £t) and to draw on the ooaiparieon of national forecasts which are made the Group-on Mediums-term Economic Forecast?.
Current work and future orientations desired by the Commission
20. The Commission began certain work concerned with these forecasts a year ago using the limited means at its disposal.
The following paragraphs .set out : ,
- the main arèas of current work
- the main lines of their future development.
(1) Council Decis.ion of .
21. For short-term forecasts, the emphasis xs at present on :
- the rapid collection of available national forecasts concerning general trends in the demand and supply of labour ;
- the qualitative identification of trends in particular industries or sectors. • "
It is intended to organize periodic contacts with the national services and both sides of industry in order to examine and augment this information.
22. For medium-term forecasts, current activity centres around the preparation of projections of both supply and demand for labour over a five-year period, disaggregated respectively by age. and' sex, and by industry.
An initial "trial" projection, covering about ten branches, will be available in the- sprihg of 1975- It coders the. period.' ... up to 1980 and is based on information derived from national forecasts supplied by a group of forecasting experts.
The results will be assessed during the year, and updated periodically.
23- Alongside this, the results of the research commissioned to establish an inventory of forecasts of demands for different skills will be analyzed . in, order to ascertain whether it is possible :
- to forecast trends in the demand for certain professions or trades
( i) directly, or
(H) by using forecasts of employment in the various industries in conjunction with data on the demand for different skills from the various industries.
2k. It is planned to improve the work in all these areas by taking the following actions :
comparing the employment forecasts with the macro-economic projections of the Community ;
extending the number of sectors covered by the forecasts and investigating some in depth ;
comparisons and confrontations of national results
in order better to assess individual projections.
in depth analysis of the internal supply of manpower and of its component parts.
25. In the longer term, this aim can be pursued in a more fundamental manner :
- by improving the forecasts and the methodologies ;
- by assessing the means of incorporating the effects of trade and labour movements into the national forecasting models.
26. At the same time, the Commission intends to play an active part in the development of the forecasting "infrastructure".
In particular, this can be achieved through the following activities :
- the setting up of a mutual information system covering, for example :
the registration, translation and circulation of studies and the results of forecasts ;
- encouraging the training and exchange of specialists between countries :
collaboration with the Statistical Office of the EEC m view of the development of statistics, especially by the establishment of
a Community nomenclature of professions and trades.
The tasks indicated can be undertaken without formal decision of the Council. They rely, above all, on a close
co-operation between the national services and the services of the Commission. Their cost is therefore limited.
The programme of work outlined above can be started immediately. Its progress will need to be examined periodically
in the context of the harmonization of employment policies on which the Council has decided.
In order to develop this work to the full, the Commission has established a group of experts on employment forecasts.
This group, formed notably from representatives of the national services responsible for employment forecasts, will function in close contact with other groups, especially the Study Group on medium-term economic prospects, and the groups responsible for short-term economic forecasts. The Commission hopes for the collaboration of Member States in order to ensure that the group can function in as efficient a way as possible.
In the past the Council and the Standing Committee on Eoployoent have, on several occasions, stressed the importance they attach to a better knowledge of the Community's employment market. The 197^ Social Action Programme included this problem in its priority tasks and the present state of employment gives increasing importance.
For the last fifteen years considerable progress has been made as a result of the patient work of the SOEC and the interest
and co-operation of national statistical institutes (especially, through the bi-annual survey of the work-force). ;
Despite this progress, Community discussions on employment - have only occasionally been able to make use of figures concerning the problems in question. The information available is fragmentary, out of date or unsuited to the problems raised - whether may be - the employment of women, unemployment amongst young people, levels of qualification or sectoral analysesof employment. , .
The Committee of the Social Fund has had to stop using unemployment figures as guidelines because of the heterogeneous nature of the figures. Short-term economic analyses often come up against difficulties in separating structural and short-term economic causes of unemployment, a subtle distinction, but one which is essential for guiding economic policy* K
Similarly, Member States concerned with comparing results or structures with their partners are hindered by doubts regarding the comparability of figures or the content of the concepts used.
 The Commission is anxious to see this gap bet\ireen the statistics available"and the needs of Community policy bridged.
The remedy for this, of course, includes improvement of basic statistics, forwhichaplanofcollaborationbetweenthenational institutes is being drawn up. But it also assumes an effort to
break down the barriers between the main national and community users : only a comparison of their points of view will make it possible to assess more accurately the underlying institutional differences, and to explain to the Community authorities the way in which the various data collected are to be interpreted.
The chief weakness in using these data arises from the infrequency of contacts between the various countries concerning the results of national studies, and the lack of comparative studies based on this research. The Commission, therefore advocates a series of measures intended to increase understanding of the Community's employment market."These measures would rely on existing services or institutes in the Member States;, they would aim to encourage their co-operation, promote specialization and circulate their results selectively and overcome linguistic barriers .
For this purpose', the Commission proposes, a programme of priority research projects on the labour market in the Community. It would consist mainly of comparative studies based on existing , empirical analyses in the Member States. The aim ;of the research would be to draw up comparative surveys or to analyse and compare national findings, and also to promote studies on less explored aspects of the labour market \tfhich might be of general" interest. Both types of research should be of an empirical nature, and > exclude purely theoretical studies. Emphasis should be put, in ■ the first few years, on comparative studies, which are rare at present, despite their great political interest at national and Community levels.
To help the Commission in the management of this programme, a research management Committee should be set up. It would be made up of persons in the Member States experienced in the management of such studies, and chosen particularly from leaders of national services and research institutes.
The tasks of the Committee would be :
- to develop precise guidelines for the research programme :
- to identify specific areas of Community interest ;
- to appraise individual research projects, proposals and results.
The programme would be financed from the normal Commission budget under a separate heading to identify the particular method of management and control suggested.
A first outline of areas suggested for the programme is set out in the Annex to this document.
The Commission asks the Council :
- to take note of this programme ;
- to agree to the transfer of credits for this purpose from article 98 to article 3050-
It will be the responsibility of the services of the Commission in consultation with the management group, and on the basis on the relevant
work which is Available on a national levfel to formulate the lines to be followed.
1 . Economic and labour market analysis of unemployment
Cyclical , structural , fractional , seasonal unemployment • - studies and assessments of :
- measurements used for each concept
- uses for économie and social policy purposes.
2 . Problems, of unemployment
Identification of different groups in terms of :
- level of qualification
and other relevent characteristics, for the development of appropriate policies.
This would cover , for example , their respective
- susceptibility to , unemployment .
Analysis of employment structures
The assessment of employment structures, in particular
the rates of employment activity in relation to the sectorial structure and geographical dispersion of employment.
The extent of
- industrial / sectorial - geographical
5. Training and employment
The extent and type of training and re-traming in the labour market, and its impact in relation to the demand for different levels and types of skills.
6. Studies in relation to employment forecasting
Studies on trends and forecasts of employment within different I
branches of activity, or within different skill groups,
in order to assist directly in the work on Employment Forecasts
Above all* vigorous and coordinated action must be taken at Communityleveltodealwiththeproblemofemployment. Thiswill- require the1 Member States, in conjunction with the organisations concerned, to coordinate their employment policies in an appropriate
manner and to set priority targets.
This declaration shows the special importance, under present circumstances, of the item in the Social Action Programme dealing with thecoordinationofemploymentpolciies(l). Thepresentserious employment situation in the Community is not simply the result of ■ v
cyclicalfactors. Itisalsothe'ansegjienoeoftheprolonged inflationsufferedbytheMemberStatesforseveralyears. Furthermore
the redeployment of resources necessitated by the increase in energy
prices and current Industrial and social change will call for a-considerable effort to adapt the labour markets of :the' Community-, (l) ; .r :
In the Social Fund the Community has an operational instrument •whose influence "is beginning to bear fruitJ a specific proposal is
being prepared aimed at developing the action of the Fund in the restructuring being carried out as a result of the.'current.crisis.
The Regional Fund,on its side,will allow f.or a strenghtening of , Community action in the stimulation of investment and economic activity
(l) - See document SEC(74) 1358 "Employment problems and the energy situation"
- see document SEC(74) 4943 "The prospects for European Social Policy" drawn up for the Social Conference of December 1974*
 in the least favoured areas of the Community.
However the influence which the Community can exercise on employment through its operational instruments is limited.
In reality the development of employment in the Member States depends on the interplay of an extremely varried range of influences among which a particular importance should he given to ».
- on the one hand national policies aimed at bringing about a better balance on the labour market through actions influencing both labour supply
and ddmandf
- on the other certain Community policies (such as the integration of markets, commercial policy, aid policy) primarily developed to
meet other objectives but exercising a major influence on the development and pattern of employment. Through these actions the Community has created a substantial interdependence between
national employment policies whose significance is not always sufficiently appreciated.
. The diversity of these influences and the multiplicity of the
responsible institutions who manage them are not unconnected with the
difficulties encountered for several years in the development of a r.•
clear conception of Community action as regards employment. ::(■
. . The reestablishment of the work of the Standing Employment Committee creates the possibility of achieving in practical terms the objective „of'coordinating employment underlined in.the Social Action Programme.
This opportunity . calls for ?n active contribution to the problems
connected with employment from the .Commission) . the Council and the national authorities* The efforts needed vill imply a serious and concerted preparation "by the Commission and the Member States on the
substance of issueB to be discussed* *■ ■ ■ :
It is the view of the Commission that a vigorous and coordinated action in the field of employment depends on the one hand on an. effort at dialogue and the- clarification of concepts and on the other on, a series of precise tasks to be undertaken in cooperation between the Community and the national levels.
I. The coordination at Community level of employment policies : object and content
The aim of employment policy is to contribute along with general ■economic policy to th£ establishment of as high a level of employment
as possible while assuming the qualitative and quantitative matching
of supply
and demand on the labour market. In order to attain this
it provides services and contributions designed to ' workers access to employment , the protection of employment ,
the fulfillment at work of their professional and. personal capacities and the improvement of . their working conditions . These goals are developed with the participation and the collaboration of the Social Partner^, along procedures and means conform to the traditions and
legislations of each country. Although viewed for a.long time in an essentially defensiys and remedial . role employment policy is more and
,more assuming the function of anticipating risks to employment. .r
Thus employment policy tends,, in most Member States to be concerned with the supply of manpower and with the labour market* ^ Questions dealing with the demand for labour and the creation of new employment are mainly dealt with by decisions relating to economic policy, industrial policy and regional policy.
 At a national level this division of tasks is completed, "by a permanent dialogue allowing those responsible for such job creating policies to hear the point of view of those responsible for employment policy*.. ....
At the Community level ,on the other hand, those responsible for national employment policy can only express their views , through indireot channels whether through their national colleagues who are
responsible for economic, industrial or Regional policies or through
the intermediary of their opposite numbers inside the Commission*. .
This analysis leads to the following consequences for coordination : .
1° an intensive coordination must :.be established between those responsible at a national level for employment as regard actions for
which they , are responsible especially the protection of employment , the conditions of balance on the labour market and the instruments to
direct the supply of manpower.. It should also attempt to develop an active policy of employment on a coordinated basisJ
• 2° the coordination of instruments dealing with the demand for manpower depends essentially on other Community and national bodies •••
In order to tske more systematically account Of the employment dimension of the other Community policies the Commission has already taken the first steps, both on the internal level (technical work) and on the' level of relations with the Social Partners . Furthermore
it might be useful, 'when necessary, 'to inform those responsible, at a national level for employment about certain iarportant aspects of
Community policies,! and in certain cases ta consider joints meetings with those responsible for other sectors-' " ■
II. Priority tasks for the coordination of employment policies
For-the reasons which have just "been mentioned, the work programme proposed "below for coordination is devoted essentially to questions of
" "balance on the employment market and the supply of labour. It concerns the tasks which the Commission could tackle in 1975 and 1976 without prejudice to the proposals which it is. preparing or will develop for the Council.
These tasks concern four areas t
- mutual information <3a the problems ,• the prospects and the priorities for each country as regards employment;
- an examination in common of the employment problems of certain categories of workers (women, young, migrant workers) and the •
identification of priorities and of means for Community activities in their favour;
. .. - examination and stimulation of the action of national and Community instruments of employment policy;
- reflection ai the major problems of the more long term -
development of employment in the Community and of responses thus *
'• ûalled for..
The work proposed below have been identified with the help of
the experience acquired through the meetings with the Commission held
in 1974 with the General Directors for Employment. During a .
preliminary discussion of this work, they have expressed positive
reactions to it and made certain suggestions which the Commission has taken into account in the present communication^ . The Commission also
expects to specify further the contents of these orientations during
the next meetings with the national administrations as Well as with
the Social Partners .
• Pr°^lems priorities in the Menter States " >/.. • .
Periodical exchanges of view on- the employment situation and on the short term outlook have been taking place for a year*
The Commission has been able to improve the collection of statistics on the national employment situation and expects to present brief ' reports to each coordinating meeting* ■ ' •
A special effort will be devoted to the identification ' and
discussion of those areas and forms of action which each Member
Country* judges as priority for the coming year. Such an exercise,
helping the better understanding of the diversity of national situations,
would contribute usefully to the determination of future priorities
for overall social action in the Community, and more specifically for the action of the Social Fund.
2. Problems associated with certain categories of workers
The development of actions by the Commission for women, the
young and migrant workers should be the subject of both broader and more
concrete exchanges of views with the responsible national authorities for employment . These exchanges should in particular have a . major contribution to make to the coordination of immigration policies proposed by the Commission. .
Similar exchanges are required to bring about a Community action to promote yourth employment - an important preoccupation and' one which, is now common to' all- the member countries . •
3. National and Community instruments of employment policy
Alongside actions by category the role of the central instruments of employment policy should be examined. As a first stage the following questions should be looked at :
a) gg>jional placement services» The passage to an operational stage of the European system for the compensation of. supply and demand of labour (SEDOC), in the framework of the re/rulation on free circulation (l) provides for
supportiivr actions ' at the* level of. national placement services . The??© services- which in many countries are undertaking a modernisation programme and
which are "being severely tested by the present crisis - have on many occasions shown their interest in a technical cooperation to be
promoted by the Commission (problems of methods of registration, compensation and information). Such a cooperation - interrupted since 1972 - should be taken up again, in this difficult and unspectacular field, whose central role in the balancing of employment is often
b) the relation between vocational training and employment. In this field also , the crisis has hit the Member States at a moment when the national systems were in full transformation. The creation of the European- Centre for Vocational Training on the one hand and the
needs of the Social Fund on the other give this field a concrete ; r Community dimension. The question of whether the action of the
Consultative Committee for Vocational Training could not be fed
by complementary work on the relation between employment and training should be examined. Several' specific questions, arising out of the experience ' of the Social Fund, deserve to be examined together ( in particular the role of income support systems while workers are being readapted, the use of vocational training capacities in times of economic slack, etc ...).
c) employment legislation and the redeployment of the work force
In the current crises many Member States are investigating the contri­ bution which different legislative or contractual instruments con
make to the necessary redeployment of manpower resources. Could
a rearrangement of present measures on the length of work and the age of retirement, contribute to the absorption %!
(1) Régulation n° 1612/68 (Art 15) - O.J. n° L257/2 of 19.10.68.
of full or partial unemployment through a "better sharing-out of
the demand for manpower - and at what excessive cost to the economy ? Is it desirable to intensify the stimuli and the financial supports
for sectorial, professional and geographical mobility ? Such questions should form the subject of a common examination by the responsible bodies in the Member States .
The present employment difficulties raise certain major problems
for the'Community, quite apart from the immediate implications for the present situation. These problems especially concern the realisation of full employment in the new conditions of growth, the oonsequenoes of
the slow-down in immigration for full employment and the possibility
of enhancing industrial work.
A first report on the medium- term prospects will be available shortly. This could constitute a point of departure for an assessment on the medium term problems raised by the need to balance employment.
At a later stage these reflections should be related to the preparation of the next programme for medium-term economic policy where employment- should in principle play an important part.
In order to accomplish this work the Commission feels that it can prbcede pragmatically -on the basis of the procedures established last year.
 - to pursue the regular meetings of the Directors General of Employment three or four times a year, following the practice of last year. These high level meetings should provide the general framework within which some technical meetings can take place. In particular they will discuss and specify the work programme;
- to consult and bring together, as the need arises, experts or those responsible in the different operational areas mentioned in the programme of work.
The Commission however must draw the attention of the Council to a wish expressed "by the Directors General of Employment*. While stating
their preference to maintain an informal character to their work, they thought it desirable to consider the possibility of joint meetings with other coordinating groups (especially the group concerned with medium term economic policy). The Commission has noted this wish, which it will take into account in due time in the course of development of the work.
The work outlined here should be clearly separated from the decision-making processes falling within the sphere of the Council.
What is involved in fact are exchanges and confrontations of experiences and of viewpoints needed to broaden national assessments as much as
to enlighten the Commission. This can lead from time to time to Community proposals or decisions} but their essential contribution will often be at the level of informal cross fertilization. Even in this case they will have contributed to the breaking down of barriers surrounding one sector of national life where access to the experiences of others
is particularly difficult to obtain but strongly desired. They will also have helped to underpin in a more concrete way the actions
which the Commission must undertake in the area of employment.
The .Commission asks the Council s . <
- to take note of the programme of coordination set out in the present document ; - ' .
- to give its agreement to the working methods suggested;
- to confirm the importance which it attaches to the coordination of national employment policies, as defined in the present communication, and in particular to the action? it identified as a first stage for this coordination*
To "be established by common agreement between the Council and the Commission
1. The current employment situation and its future development call for an intensification of the efforts being made to increase the understanding of the labour market and its tendencies .
2. In the spirit of article 118 these efforts must be made
with close cooperation between the services of the Commission and the services of the member States in both the selection of the priority themes and the carrying out itself of the studies.
3. The research programme to be carried out in this context will be oriented around the themes defined in the annex. It will largely concern comparative studies based on existing empirical analyses in the Member States. The aim of the research will be to draw up comparative surveys
or to analyse and compare national findings, and also to promote studies
on less explored aspects of the labour market which might be of general interest. Both types of research should be of an empirical nature, and exclude purely theoritical studies . Emphasis will be put , in the first few years , on comparative studies , which are rare at present , despite their great political interest at national and Community levels.
4 . To help the Commission in the management of this programme , a research management Committee will be set up. It will-be made up of persons in the Member States experienced in the manegement of such studies, and chosen particularly from leaders of national services and research institutes .
The tasks of the Committee will be :
- to develop precise guidelines for the research programme;
- to identify specific areas of Community interest;
- to appraise individual research projects , proposals and results .
5. These measures will rely on existing services or institutes in
the Member States ; they will aim to encourage their co-operation , promote specialization and. circulate their results selectively and overcome linguistic barriers .
6. The programme xill be financed from the normal Commission budget under a separate heading to identify the particular method of management and. control suggested .
A first outline of areas suggested for the programme is set out in the Annex to this document .
Questions générales
- page 1 - ajouter footnote (l)
(Communication from the Commission to the Council)
The present employment situation and its future development are causing major concern in all the member countries . They call for
the Community's special attention for several reasons. Firstly the persistence of unemployment is not only costly and dangerous from a social point of view hut it also seriously affects the cohesion of the Community and could provoke unilateral defensive measures. Secondly the Community has at its disposal various instruments which - either directly (the Social Fund and freedom of movement) or indirectly (commercial policy) exert a considerable influence on employment trends. Lastly, tia resumption of the work, of the Standing Committee on Employment will require the Community to adopt a position on a number of questions or to take significant actions in this field.
The Commission has already submitted to the Social Conference in December (l) a document presenting an overall strategy for the control of employment trends in the present crisis. It has also submitted proposals relating to certain aspects of employment problems to the Council (in particular female employment and migrant workers). Furthermore it is preparing a new proposal dealing with the intervention of the Social Fund in the present crisis (in the framework of Article
4 of Council Decision 71/66 of the 1st February 1971)•
However the various actions which the Community is advancing must be based on a coherent approach designed to improve and speed-up the
analysis of problems, to identify the areas where action by the Community should have priority and would be effective, and lastly to
(l) Document SEC(74) 4943 - Prospects for European Social Policy.
 provide guidelines for the content of its proposals. Such work assumes . that the Community intensifies the efforts it has "been making to comprehend the employment market and its forseeable tendencies and that it undertakes actions to coordinate national employment policies.
On each of these questions, the Commission has started a certain number of works and envisages their further development as a priority in the near future.
This is the context of the three attached communications which the Commission is transmitting to the Council.
The communication dealing with the coordination of national employment policies is particularly important in this respect.
This item, which is part of the Social Action Programme calls for close cooperation between the national administrations and the Commission. The annexed document is based on the exchanges of views held over the last year with the Directors-General for Employment. It proposes a short-term work programme and asks the Council to give its political support in order to assure the development of the planned work.
The communication dealing with employment forecasts presents a I
brief balance-sheet of the work done over the past year, and which should shortly result in a first report on the outlook in the member countries. It also indicates the orientations and the work methods
which should allow a fruitful development of the work undertaken.
Finally the research programme of the employment market sets out the orientations to govern the use of the budgetary credits foreseen
for this purpose in the 1975 budget (article 3050, assigned provisionally under article $8).
• This programme is in the framework of the implementation of Article 118 and can 'oe established by common agreement between the Council and the Commission.
These different tasks essential in order to allow the Community to "better fill its role in the current employment crisis – and to ensure the best use possible of the Social Fund and the establishment of the working of the Standing Employment Committee on a sound footing-.
The first two communications do not call for formal >desisions from the Council.. However the political impulse which the Council . could lend would help the reinforcement of the cooperation between the national services and the Commission which is inaispensible for the efficient carrying cv.t of the work. , ,
"Aixrve- aril ? vigor-ors . toidi coordinated: ncllon must W'VsJwn '"at
Ccnteac&iRp- level to. dead vith -+b© Ipro-hileai of c^ploysent " "declared- -KUe
P-jpsi# Smanit t'eetxcp- of Deoeuifcer-.1974> M?his wiii_require tfa^.-JIemfrer
thiLir .aajilaynsirt policies in «ua appropriate i'r?&ner and to sot priority tnar^ts*" _ _ . .
This declaration shows the special importance, under present circumstances, of the item in the Social Action Programme dealing with the coordination of employment polciies ( l ). The present serious employment situation in Ihe Community is not simply the result of "•
cyclical factors . , It is also the '■oneeg.aer.^e of thai prolonged I • inflation suffered "by the Member States for several years» Furthermore
the redeployment of resources necessitated by the increase in energy
price:-: and- current industrial and social change will call 'for laiconsiderable effort to adapt the labour markets cf the Communityo ( l )
In the Social Fund the Community has an operational instrument whose influence is beginning to be*r fruitj a specific proposal is being prepared aimed at developing the action of the Fund in the restructuring being carried out as a result of the current crisis .
The Regional Fund, on its side ,will allow for a strenghtening of Community action in the stimulation of investment and economic activity
(l) - Se9 document S3C(74) 1358 "Employment problems and the energy situation "
- see cTocuJnVsiir'SE0(74-) 4*43' "Theiiprtrspecrtr&i for-EuSrope?® ;Social Policy" drawn up for the Social Conference of December 1974«
in the least favoured areas of the Community.
However the influence which the Community can exercise on employment through its operational instruments Is limited#
In reality the development of employment in the Member States depends on the interplay of an extremely varried range of factorn among which a particular importance should "be givan to t
- on the one hand national, policies aimed at . bringing about a , better balance on the labour market through actions influencing both labour.supply
- on of markets ,
the other certain - Community policies ( such as the integration v • commercial policy , aid policy ) primarily developed to
iheet other objectives but exercising a major influence on the development and pattern of employment* Through these actions the ... Corannmity has created a substantial interdependence between
national employment policies whose significance is not always, sufficiently appreciated.
The .diversity of these factors and the. multiplicity of the
responsible institutions who manage them are jaot u«connectel with the
difficulties encountered for several years in the development of a ,,
clear conception of Community action as regards employment. I ....
The reestabiislraent of the work cf the Standing Employment Committee creates the possibility of &oki.eving in practical terms the objective
of coordinating employment underlined in the Social Action Programme*.
This opportunity calls for an active contribution to the problems
The aim of employment polioy is to contribute along with general economic polioy to '-the establishment of as high a level of employment as possible while assuming the qualitative and quantitative matching
connected with employment from the Commission, the Council and the nationalauthorities* Theeffortsneededwillimplyaseriousand
concerted preparation by the Commission and the Member States of the substance of issues to be discussed.
It is the view of the Commission that a vigorous and coordinated action in the fj.elc of employment depends on the one hand oa. an effort at dialogue and the clarification of concepts and on the other on a series of preaise tasks to be undertaken in cooperation between the
Community and the national leveis.
I. The coordination at Community level of employment policies : object and content
of supply
and demand on the labour market. In order to attain this
it provides serviced and financial aids design©'- tJ t workers' access to employment, the protection of employment,
the fulfillment at work of their professional and personal capacities a»dtheimprovementoftheirworkingconditions, Thesegoalsare developed with the participation and the collaboration of 'the Social Partners, fallowing methods in line with the traditions am'
' legislations -of each country. Although viewed for a long time in an essentially defensive and remedial role employment policy is more and more assuring the function of anticipating risks to employment.
Thus employment policy tends, in most Member States to be concerned with the supply of manpower and with the labour market* Questions dealing with the demand for labour and the creation of new employment, are mainly dealt with by decisions relating to economic policy, industrial policy and regional policy.
 At a national level this division of tasks is completed "by a
permanent , dialogue allowing those responsible for such job creating policies to hear the point of view of those responsible for employment policy.
At the Community level on the other hand, those responsible for national employment policy can only express their views through indirect channels whether through their national colleagues who are
responsible for econoraio, industrial or regional policies or through
the intermediary of their opposite numbers inside the Commission, .
This analysis leads toithe following consequences for • :■ coordination » ■ » ,
1° an intensive coordination must be established between -those responsible at a national level for employment as regard actions for
which they are responsible especially the protection of employment, the conditions, of balance on the labour market and the instruments to direct the supply of manpower. It should also attempt to develop an aotive policy of employment on a coordinated basis ;
2° the coordination of instruments dealing with the demand for
manpower depends essentially on other Community and national .bodies •••
In or to-4ake more systematic* account of the employment dimension of the other Community policies the Commission has already taken the first .steps, both on the internal level (technical work)
and on the" level of relations with the Social Partners. Furthermore it.might.be useful,, when necessary, to inform those responsible, at a
national level Tor employment about certain important nspects of Community pplicies , and in' certain- cases to consider joints meetings with those responsible for other sectors.
Priority tasks for the coordination of employment policies
For the reasons which have just been mentioned, the work programme proposed "below for coordination is devoted essentially to questions of balanceontheemploymentmarketandthesupplyoflabour# Itconcerns the tasks which the Commission could tackle in 1975 and 1976 without prejudice to the proposals which it is preparing or will develop for the Council.
These tasks concern four areas Î
- mutual information on the problems, the prospects and the priorities for each country as regards employment;
- an examination in common of the employment problems of certain categories of workers (women, young, migrant workers) and the identification of priorities and of means for Community activities . in their favour;
- examination and stimulation of the action of national and Community instruments of employment policy}
- reflection en the major problems of the more long term development of employment in the Community and of responses thus called for,
!Hhe work proposed below have been identified with the help of
the experience acquired through the meetings with the Commission held in1974withtheGeneralDirectorsforEmployment. Duringa
preliminary discussion of this work, they have expressed positive
reactions to it and-made, certain suggestions which the "Commission has taken intoaccountinthepresentcommunication. TheCommissionalso
expects to specify further the contents of these orientations during
the next meetings with the national administrations as well as with
the Social Partners.
• P**0^ 6111^ and. priorities .in the Member Stajbes . .
Periodical exchanges of view on the employment situation and on the short term outlook have been .taking place for a -year. '
The Commission has "been able to improve the collection of statistics on the national employment situation and expects to present brief reports to each coordinating meeting;- >
• ,.'A special effort will be devoted to the identification and discussion of those areas and forms of action which each Member
Country judges as. priority for the coming year. Such an.exercise, helping the better understanding of the diversity of national situations , would contribute usefully to the determination of future '-priorities
for overall social action in the Community, and more specifically for the ..action -.of the- 'Social Fund.. , ■- . , '
Problems associated with certain categories of workers ^
The development of 'actions by the Commission for women, the
young and migrant workers should be the subject of both broader and more
concrete exchanges of views with the responsible national authorities for employment. These exchanges should in particular have a major contribution to make to the coordination of immigration policies
'proposed by the Commission. • ' ' ' ' ^
"Similar exchanges are required to bring about a Community action' to promote youth employment' - an important preoccupation and one whiek is now common- 4;o all the member' countries .
3. National aid' Community ■ instruments of employment policy , -
'Alongside actions by category the role bf the central instruments of' employment policy should be examined., As a first stage the following questions "should be looked at s "
 a) national placement services . The passagsr to ari operational stage of the European system for- the. compensation- of" supply and demand of labour (SEDOC),
in--tire, .framework: oof1-the re^nrtB-tion~Dnr;free circulartion suppQrtintT.-acti.orLs at-.-iho£'itevei-. o£ nutionul-_pI&oageflt.-s&rvigenEr. v which in many countries are undertaking a modernisation programme and
which are being severely tested by the present crisis - have on many occasions shown -their interest in a technical cooperation to be
profioted by the Commission (problems xif methods of registration, compensation and information)# Such a cooperation - interrupted isince I972 <- should be taken up again, in this difficult and unspectacular field , whose central role in the balancing x>f employment is often '
b) the relation between vocational training and employment* In. this field also, the crisis has hit the Member States at a moment when
the national systems were in full transformation. The creation of . the European Centre for Vocational Training on the one hand and the needs of the Social Fund on the other give this field a concrete Community dimension. . The question of, whether the action of the Consultative Committee rfor Vocational Training could not be s-jr^osrted by complementary work on the relation between employment and training should be examined. Several specific questions, arising out of the
> >•*■ f.• experience of the Social Fund, deserve to be examined together (in
particular the role . of income Support systems while workers are being readapted, the use of vocational training capacities in times of economic slack, etc ...).
c) employment legislation and the redeployment of the work force,
In the current crises many Member States are investigating the contri­ bution which different legislative or contractual instruments con', make to the necessary redeployment of manpower resources. ...Could
a rearrangement of present measures on the leiigth of work and theag^of retirement, contribute to the absorption /
(1) Régulation n° 1612/68 (Art 15) - O.J. n° L257/2 of 19.10.68.
of full or partial unemployment through a "better sharing-out of
the demand for manpower - and at what roxtra • cost t,o the economy ? Is it desirable to intensify . .the stimuli and the financial supports
for sectorial, professional and geographical mobility ? Such questions should form the subject of a common examination by the responsible . bodies in the Member States .
The présent employment difficulties raise certain major pToblems
for the Community , quite apart from the immediatB implications- for the present •J, ..
situation. These problems especially concern the realisation of full
employment in the new conditions of growth^ the consequences of •<*.. •'A#"'
the slow-down:in' immigration for full employment and" the p^srcribilitine . 10- job. enrichment, ' ■ : " ■- :
A first report on the medium term prospects will bei available shortly. This could constitute a point of departure for an assessment on the medium term problems raised by the need to balance employments,
At a later stage these reflections should be related to the
preparation ofr the next programme for medium-terra economic policy
where Employment should in principle play an important part. 1 *'' •,. '. \ ;•
' In' order , to, accomplish this work the Commission feels that it can precede pragmatically on the basis of the procedures established"*last year-.'" .1'" r1' . ,:o­
 - to pursue the regular meetings of the Directors General of Employment three or four times a year, following the practice of last year. These high level meetings should provide the general framework within which some technical meetings can take place# In particular they will discuss and specify the work programme} * ■ t
- to consult and "bring together, as the need arises, experts or those responsible in the different operational areas mentioned in the programme of work.
The Commission however must draw the attention of the Council to a wish expressed by the Directors General of Employment. While stating
their preference to maintain an informal character to their work, they thought it desirable to consider the possibility of joint meetings with other coordinating groups (especially the group concerned with medium term economic policy). The Commission has noted this wish, which it will take into account in due time in the course of development of the work.
The work outlined here should be clearly separated from the decision-making processes falling within the sphere of the Council.
What is involved in fact are exchanges and confrontations of experiences
and of viewpoints needed to tr ^srlen both national pesessments and to t;r : v ide
the- t-'crrjieeipn with information . This can lee* frora time to time 1 5 ".jr^unity .lY-.-iaclc or decisions} but their essential contribution will oft«* l.-e the
lovc.1 informal cross fertilisation. Even in this care thet will >*.ve
ccatriluted to the breaking 5own of barriers surrounding- one sect '-r aationol life where access to the experiences of others is particy.lpjrl;;'' f.i 'ficult to obtain but ctranr ly desired. They will also have hel'. 0-"' t-"> unr e:?r.in in a more concrete way the actions which the Commission r ust un.-'.eT'icil© in the area of employment.
' The 'Commission asks the Council ; ,
~ to take note of the programme of coordination set out in the present document %
- to give its agreement to the working methods suggested J
- to confirm the importance which it attaches to the coordination of national employment policies , as defined in the present communication, and in particular to the actions it identified as a first stage for this coordination. ; -
1 . The development of employment forecasts was adopted by the Council, in its Resolution of 21 January 197^» as a priority objective of the Community's Social Action Programme.
2. The Council had previously discussed the question of forecasts I
at the end of 1970 and stressed the need for a detailed plan based on a Commission draft. In this communication, the Commission aims to set before the Council the plans and guidelines which it intends to implement.
The need for, ^.nd limitations of, forecasts
3. The Commission is well aware of both the need for employment" forecasts, and their limitations. The need for them is shown in
numerous areas of Community activity, such as employment policy and the free movement of workers, vocational training, the Social Fund, and regional and commercial policy; it also appears to be of considerable importance to economic and financial policy where information PJtid forecasts concerning' developmentB in the labour market are needed as a basis for decisions.
The limitations of forecasts are a result of both uncertainty and lack of detail. Employment forecasts suffer from the same
shortcomings as other economic forecasts, in that they cannot take account of all the factors which will determine actual outcome.
Moreover, certain important factors may change after forecasts have been drawn up, and thereby change the trends forecast.
 5- However, any decision about the future is based on hypotheses about future developments, whether there are formally expressed in quantitative terms or are at an intuitive, or non formal level. . '
Explicit forecasts have two -major advantages '
over purely intuitive forecasts or . -
assumptions. Firstly, they imply the strict and rational identification of as many relevant factors and information as possible. Moreover, , they make it possible, when -the initial '"'data- have to be
modified, to determine the eiffect of these modifications on forecasts. The normal forecasting procedure is to update results at regular intervals in the light of information available, in order to provide a continuous monitoring of future prospects.
6. One of the main difficulties in the development of forecasts * liesinthenumbferofpotentialusersandthediversityoftheir *' needs. The latter differ considerably depending on whether the information must be provided for general economic policy guidance, decisions about education or training, or industrial and regional
policy. Of course,, the research projects necessary to meet these different needs complement one another tut they follow different orientations, particularly with regard to methods and disaggregation. The
allocation of the limited resources available must take into
account these differences,' in order to achieve the best possible compromise between the various' needs. ■
Scope of employment forecasting work at Community level
7. In its conclusions of December' 1970,
the Commission to draw up a" complete and detailed-plan in order to-
stimulate and develop research work on forecasts of the working population"of the Qommunity, i.e«, forecasts of employment and the available supplies of labour in the Communitv end to
(1) Conclusions on the outcome of the Conference on employment problems (Doc. 238V70 (C0NF30C MO of 18 December"1970).
intensify the exchange of information and experience in order ' !
to provide mutual assistance between Member States. This will'call
for the careful identification of the Community interest in this- work and"the definition of the ways and means of achieving these objectives,
8. Since 1970, the Commission has held various consultations
in Luxemburg, Erlangen and Brussels with experts and users of , forecasts. These contacts have made it possible to develop certain guidelines and undertake certain actions.
9. Knowledge of the underlying trends of labour supply and demand is still as necessary as fever, and the impetus to draw up forecasts is broadly based; nevertheless, recent developments have: • brought changes in1 emphasis in the Member States and altered Community priorities. • .
10. In view of-the growing seriousness ofthe unemploymeht situation the work should perhaps empha&ise forecasts of the demand for* manpower on a sectoral basis.
11. Furthermore, the renewal of the Social Fund, decided in $$71 1 and its deployment in the context of current economic developments, has given priority to V , : '■ '
forecasts concerning certain industries and•< groups. In fact, the economic disturbances following the energy price increases
have greatly increased the difficulties of employment policies
at national and Community levels. This will increase in the , future the structural problems which are added to the current
short-term difficulties. These changes.must'be analysed carefully. <
12. At the moment, the Member States (and also. the Commission) publish official short-term estimates (12-18 months) of employment as part of their short-term macro-economic forecasts. In some cases, these forecasts are broken down by industry or sector.
In the majority of the Member States, other short-term forecasts are available from academic, quasi-public or private institutions.
13. Medium-term (5 year) employment forecasts disaggregated
by a number of industries, are available in most countries, although they vary considerably in their scope ans methodology. These estimates usually ignore short-term fluctuations and concentrate
"\k. Medium and long-term estimates of labour supply disaggregated by age and sex are available in all countries, based on population . trends and taking account, to varying degrees, of changes in
the demand for labour, and in the ages of entry and retirement
from the labour market.
In line with one of the principle coiicrete recommendations made, . the Commission has established a dossier on the various
employment forecasts available in the Community.
16. In addition, various forecasting work is being carried out in Member States to assess future developments in the -supply of, and demand for, specific skills and qualifications. The Commission has initiated research to establish the extent and scope of
such activities; the results will be available shortly.
17* Despite the extensive methodological and statistical work which has already been undertaken in the Member States, certain problems exist which inhibit the wider use of forecasts.
18. Firstly, existing national forecasts, however similar they may be in broad concept , vary considerably in terns of definitions, assumptions, scope and methodology. The usefulness of some forecasts iis, therefore, limited and comparisons between countries often hazardous.
19- Secondly, national forecasts should be closely iinked to assumptions about general economic trends. Che international environment plays an important part here ; but it is taken into account very differently from one country to another. It will, therefore, be important to establish appropriate links with the medium-term macro-economic forecasts drawn up at Community level (i) $.,nd to^drnw'on the ocaparison of national forecasts- which are madh by-tlie Group on •Mediao^tern-EsoxLOnic'•Forecasts.
Current work and future orientations desired by the Commission
20. The Commission began certain work concerned with these forecasts a year ago using the limited means at its disposal.
The followmg paragraphs set out :
- the main areas of current v/ork
- the main lines of their future development.
__ •/. (1) Council Décision of
 -» to forecast trends in the demand for certain professions or trades
( i) directly, or*
21 . For short-term forecasts , the emphasis is at present on :
- the rapid collection of available national forecasts concerning general trends in the demand and supply of labour ;
- the qualitative identification of trends in particular industries or sectors.
It is intended to organize periodic contacts with the national services and both sides of industry in order to examine and augment this information. - ••. _ H •
22. For medium-term forecasts, current activity centres around the preparation of projections of both supply and demand for labour over a five-year period, disaggregated respectively by âge and sex, and by mdustry. .
An initial "trial" projection, covering about ten branches, will be available in the spring of 1975* It covers the period
up to' 1980 and is based on information derived from' national
forecasts"supplied by a group of forecasting^ experts.
The results will be assessed during the year, and updated periodically.
2?. Alongside this, the results of the research commissioned to establish an inventory of. forecasts of demands .for different .
skills will be analyzed in order to ascertain whether it is;> • possible :
(ii) by using forecasts of employment in the various industries in conjunction with data on the demand for different skills from the various industries.
2b . It is planned to improve the work in all these areas by taking the following actions :
-'comparing the employment forecasts with the macro-economic projections of the Community ;
- extending the number of sectors covered by the forecasts and investigating some in depth ;
- comparisons and confrontations of national results
in order better to assess individual projections.
* in depth analysis of the internal supply of manpower
and of îts component parts.
25. In the longer term, this aim can be pursued in a more
- by improving the forecasts and the methodologies. ; ;
- by assessing the means of incorporating the effects of tra&e and labour, movements into the national forecasting models,
26. At the same time, the Commission intends to play an active part in the development of the forecasting "infrastructure"., -
In particular, this can be achieved through the following activities :
- the setting up of a mutual information system covering, forexample,i •.•.
th6" registration, translation and circulation of studies and the results 6f forecasts ; s
» encouraging the training and exchange of specialists between countries ;
- collaboration with the Statistical Office of the EEC in view of the development of statistics, especially by the "establishment of
a Community nomenclature of professions and trades.
The tasks indicated can be"undertaken without formal
decision of the Council. They rely, above ail, on a close co-operation between the national services and the services of the Commission. Their cost is therefore limited.
The programme of work outlined above can be started immediately. Its progress will need to be examined periodically
in the context of the harmonization of employment policies on Which the Council has decided.
In order to develop this work to the full, the Commission has established a group of experts on employment forecasts.
This group, formed mainly from representatives of the national services responsible for employment forecasts, will function in close contact with other groups, especially the Study Group on medium-term economic prospects, and the groups responsible for short-term economic forecasts. The Commission hopes for the collaboration of Member States in order to ensure that the group can function in as efficient a way as possible.
In the past, the Council and. the Standing Committee on Eoployoent hove* on several occasions, stressed. „the importance they attach to a better knowledge of the Community's employment, . market.. The- 197^ Social Action Programme included this problem in its priority task-s and the present state of employment gives , increasing importance. _
Far the last fifteen years considerable progress has been
made s>.s a result of the patient work of the SOEC and the. interest.
and co-operation of national statistical institutes (especially .. through the bi-annual survey of the work-force).
Despite this progress, Community discussions on employment have only occasionally been able to make use of figures concerning the problems in question. The information available is fragmentary out of date or unsuited to the problems rp.ised - whether it may be the employment of women, unemployment amongst young people, levels of qualification or sectoral analysesof employment.
The Committee of the Social Fund has had to stop using unemployment figures as guidelines because of the heterogeneous nature of the figures. Short-term economic analyses often come up against difficulties in separating structural and short-term economic causes of unemployment, a subtle distinction, but one ' which is essential for guiding economic policy.
' Similarly, Member Strites concerned with comparing .results ■ • or structures with their partners are hindered by doubts regarding the comparability of figures or the "content of the concepts used .
The Commission is anxious to sec this gap between the
statisticsJ^vaiiabie and the^aee&s•i<>•£'•tJomnretrfi-tyfpolicy bridged. The remedy for this, of course, includes improvement of basic " ""
statistics, for which a plan of collaboration between the national institutes is being drawn up*. But; it' also--assumes an- effort'.to break down the barriers between the main national and community .../it users : only a comparison of their points of view will. make it possible to assess more accurately the underlying institutional differences , and to explain to the Community authorities the way -, in which the various data collected are to be'interpreted. .,
The chief weakness in using these data arises from the infrequency of contacts between the various countries concerning
the results of national studies, and the lack of comparative ■ studies based on this research. The Commission therefore advocates
a series of measures intended to increase understanding of the Community's employment, market. These measures would rely on existing services or institutes in the Member States; they would aim to .encourage their co-operation,- promote specialization and circulate their results selectively and overcome linguistic barriers .
Forthis.purpose, theCommissionproposesaprogrammeof priority research projects on the'labour market in the Community. It would consist mainly of comparative studies based on existing empirical analyses in the Member States. The aim of the research would be to draw up comparative surveys or to analyse and compare national findings, and also to promote studies on less explored aspects of the,- labour . market which might be of general interest . Both types of research should be of an-empirical nature, and exclude purely theoretical studies. Emphasis should. be put, in the first few years, on comparative studies, which are rare at present, despite their great political interest at national and Community levels.
To help the Commission in the management of'this programme, a research-Thanagemeiit Committed shtmld be set up.. It would be • made up of persons in the Member States experienced in the management of such studies, and chosen particularly from leaders of national services ' and research institutes . f
The tasks of the Committee would be :
• to develop precise guidelines for the research programme ;
- to identify specific areas of Community interest > •
- to appraise individual research projects, proposals and results.
The programme would ,be. financed from the normal Commission budget under a separate heading to identify the particular method of management and control suggested.
A first outline of areas'suggested for the programme is " set out in the 'Annex to this document . ' ' '
' The. Commission asks the Council: : -,-y- •:
- to take note of this programme ;
- to agiree- to. the transfer of credits for thi§ purpose from article.?98 to article 3050.'.
To "be established by common Agreement"between the Council and the Commission .
1. . The current employment situation and its future development call for
an intensification of the efforts being made to increase the understanding of the labour market and its tendencies . •
2. In the spirit' of article 118 these efforts must be made
with close cooperation between the services of the Commission and the services of the member States in both the selection of the priority themes and the carrying out itself of the studies.
3. The research programme to be carried out in this context will be oriented around the themes defined below.. I.t will , largely concern comparative studies based on existing , empirical analyses in the>.Member States. ■ The aim of the research will be to draw up comparative surveys
or to analyse and compare national findings, and alsd to promote studies
on less explored aspects of the labour market which might be of general interest. Both types of research should be of an empirical nature, and exclude purely theoritical studies'. Emphasis will be put, in the first few years , on comparative studies , which are rare at present , despite their great political interest at national and Community levels.
4 . To help the Commission in the management of this programme , a research management Committee will be set up. It will be made up of persons in the Member States experienced in the manegement of such studies, and chosen particularly from leaders of national services and research institutes .
The tasks ûf the Committee will be :
- to develop precise guidelines for the research programme;
- to identify specific areas of Community interest}
- to appraise individual research projects , proposals and results .
5. These measures will rely on existing services or institutes m the Member States; they will ?im to encourage their co-oper?>tion. promote specializ?tion and circulate their results selectively >-nd overcome
6. The programme will be finpnced from the normal .Commission budget under a sepprpte heading to identify the particular method of management and control suggested. •
It vdll be the responsibility of the services of the Commission in consultation with the management group, «?nd on the bssis of the relevant work which is evfilpble on a national level to formulate the lines to
1. Economic pnd labour mprket analysis of unemployment
Cyclxcpl, structural, frictionnl, se»son?l unemployment - studies pnd pssessments of :
- me^surements used for epch concept
- uses for economic pnd socisl polioy purpos^s .
Identification of different groups in terms of :
- level of qu^-lificption
and other relevant characteristics , for the development of appropriée policies.
 This vjould cover , for example , their respective
- susceptibility to unemployment,
3. Anelysis of employment structures
The assessment of employment structures, in particular the r=tes of
employment activity in relation to the sectoral structure and geographical dispersion of employment.
4. Mobility in the labour msrket
The extent of mobility which is 1 - occupational '
- between firms , mobility .
Treimng and employment
The extent and 'type of training and re-training in the labour . market , end its impact in relation to the demand for different levels and types ofskills. ■■ ' ■
6. Studies in relation to employment forecasting
branches of activity , or within different skill groups , in order to
assist directly in the work on Employment Forecasts ,
