co frontière
fromages ,
co frontière
DI a und b
D1 a und b D1 c
e Fiore Sardo, anohe
: in ptas/100 kg
l'EvSque, Neufchatel, Limbur-\¿li0
on the results of consultations with Spain on certain cheeses in the context of the EEC/Spain Agreement of 5 June 1970 concluded pursuant to Article XIX of GATT
concluding- the Agreement in the form of two Exchanges of Letters amending the Agreement of 5 June 1970 between the European Economic Community and Spain on certain cheeses
(submitted by the Commission t» the Council)
Consultations with Spain on certain cheeses in the context of the EEC/spain Agreement of 5 June 1970 concluded pursuant to
Artiole XIX of the GATT .
A report on its consultations with Spain
'V 1 The Commission is presenting to the Council :
A recommendation for a Council regulation concluding the Agreement * in the form of two Exohanges of Letters amending the Agreement of ,
5 June 197O between the European Economio Community and-Spain on
The Commission recommends that the Counoil conclude the said Agreement* ;
on the results of consultations with Spain on certain cheeses in the context of the EEC/Spain Agreement of 5 June 1970 concluded pursuant to Article XIX of CATT
The Spanish Government requested under Article 8 of the Agreement referred to above that consultations be held with the Community* These consultations took place on 3 and on 24 and 25 February 1975 in Geneva.
A* TheSpanishDelegation^requests
Spain made the following requests:
1. Increaseofbetween17$and21$inthresholdpricesandfree-at-frontier prices depending on the type of cheese.
It should be pointed out that the increase in threshold prices requested by the Spanish Delegation for whole Eimnentaler cheeses of Community quality was larger than for those of Swiss quality.
In support of this request the Spanish Delegation mentioned the increase in the price of milk for the 1975/76 marketing year oompared with the price for the previous marketing year of Ptas 2/litre from 1 February 1975 and another Ptas1/litrefrom1September1975* Thenewthresholdpricesproposedby Spain were calculated on the basis of an average increase (weighted pro rata temporis) of Ptas 2.8o/litre in the price Of milk*
2. Increase in specific duties commensurate with- the increase in threshold prices .
£ According to the Spanish Delegation an increase in threshold prices automatically
leads to a commensurate increase in specific duties.
3. Introductionofathresholdpriceforthefollowingcheeses:
According to the Spanish Delegation this is justified by the considerable increase , during the last few months , in imports of cheese at very low prices from certain countries , including Belgium , which , according to Spanish statistics , appears to have quadrupled its exports to Spain of cheese of the 1 Asiago, Provolone and Grana Padano type between 1973 and 1974 (from 185 t
in 1973 to 783 t in 1974) at very low prices (Ptas/kg).
4. Revision of the Agreement with a view to introducing automatic index linking of threshold prices and specific customs duties to increases in the price of milk in Spain.
B. The Community Delegation 's requests
1 . On this occasion the Community reminded the Spanish Delegation of the importance which the Community attaches to solving a number of problems which have .been outstanding for quite some time , namely*
(a) inclusion of St Marcellin cheeses and other soft cheeses such as Caprice- des Dieux, Suprême des Ducs, Petit PStre, Crème des Prés, Coeur de Normandie , etc. , in the Agreementj
(b) inclusion of the Danish cheeses Havarti, Danbo, Sanisoe, Ptynbo and Maribo• under heading No O4.O4 0 I b 3 of the Spanish tdriff, thereby qualifying . for Community preference on the same conditions as cheeses of the category comprizing Ectam, Gouda, etc.
2. During the consultations the Community representative raised the question of the delay on the part of the Spanish authorities in granting the import
licenses requested at the beginning of December 1974 for 66 tonnes of Belgian cheese of the Asiago type. He made & formal request for the licences in question to be granted without delay.
C. Outcome of the consultations
After having asked at several points in the consultations for the opinion of the Article 113 Committee, which took part in the consultations together with the experts on milk products, the Community Delegation was able to conclude the consultations with Spain ad referendum. '
The results of -the consultations are reported in annex in the approved minutes. They may "be summarized as follows:
1. Increaseinthresholdpricesintheproportionsrequested"bySpain,except for that of whole Emmentaler cheeses of Community quality.
For whole Bnmerrcaler cheeses , the margin representing the difference in quality between cheese of Swiss quality and cheese of Community quality, which amounted to Ptas 852.95/100 kg was increased to Ptas 1 052.95/100 kg, thereby reducing "byPtas200/100kgthethresholdpriceproposedforCommunityquality. The effect of this was to improve the Community's competitive position and reduce the increase of 21$ requested "by Spain to 19.8$.
2. IncreaseinspecificdutiesonwholeEmmentalercheesesofCommunity quality from Ptas 3 500/100 kg to Ptas 4 000/l00 Kg, i.e. 14.2$, instead of Ptas 4 248/100 kg, i.e. 21.4$, requested "by Spain.
The Spanish request was met in respect of other specific duties for which Spain requested increases of about 17$.
3. Theincreaseinthresholdpricesistobemadeinasingleinstalment. Spain has promised not to request additional price increases during the 1975/76 milk year.
4* ThepreferentialmarginofPtaB6.30/kgforcheesesofthecategory comprizing Gouda, Edam, etc. laid down in the Agreement between the Community and Spain of 20 July 1970 is temporarily increased to Ptas'6.69/kg.
the Spanish tariff; there is no threshold price for products under this heading, provision being made for a token regulatory duty of Ptas 1/100 kg.
6. SoftcheesessuchasCapricedesDieux,SuprêmedesDucs,PetitPâtre, CrfemedesPr6s,CoeurdeNormandie,etc. areincludedintheAgreementunder anewtariffheadingcreatedforthispurpose(04.040Ib5t othercheeses with a water content of more than 62$ of the non-fatty matter) with the same
threshold price as that fixed erga omnes for cheeses of the category comprizing Edam,Gouda,etc. andwithatokenregulatorydutyofPtas100/100kg.
7* TheDanishcheesesHavartitDanbo,Samsoe,FyriboandMaribowillbe included under heading No 04.04 0 I b 3 of the Spanish tariff and will come under the preferential system.
 8. IntroductionofathresholdpriceofPtas20283.82/100kg(thesameas that fixed erga omnes for the category comprizing Edam, Gouda, etc.) for the following headings of the Spanish tariffs
However, Spain is no longer pressing for the introduction of a threshold price for soft cheeses such as Camembert, Brie, etc.
The Belgian Delegation reserved its position with regard to the agreement reached, owing to difficulties experienced when exporting Asiago cheeses.
The Italian Delegation also reserved its position on the outcome of the consultations as a whole.
At its meeting of 6 March 1975 i*1 Geneva, the Article 113 Committee delivered a favourable opinion on the conclusion of the Agreement .
On this occasion the Belgian and Italian Delegations withdrew the reservations they had expressed on the ad referendum Agreement •
The Commission recommends that the Council should conclude, pursuant to Article 113 of the Treaty, the draft exchanges of letters given in
Annex lib and II0. These drafts incorporate in full the points of agreement recorded in the minutes approved by the two delegations at the end oftheconsultations. TheCommissionisaccordinglypresentingthedraft regulation contained in Annex IIa.
At the end of the consultations which were initiated at the request of the
Spanish Delegation under the EE^/Spain Agreement of 5 June 1970, the Spanish and the EEC Delegations agreed on the following, subject to the approval of their respective authorities.
1 . Introduction of threshold prices for certain cheeses
For certain cheeses (listed below) the Spanish import arrangements would be modified as follows subsequent to completion of the statutory procedure :
Free–at-Spanish frontier price
45% 100 20 283.82 04.04G1b)2. Provolone,Asiago,CaciocavalloandRagusano,whichfulfil
Regulatory duties Threshold price
Parmigiano Reggiano, Grana Padano, Pecorino and Fiore sardo, whether or not grated or powdered, which fulfil the conditions liaid down in Note 2
the conditions laid down in Note 2 . 45% 100
Still to be calculated on the basis of a preferential margin of
Spécifie duty of Pfcas 5 485.08/100 kg.
Still to be calculated on the basis of a preferential margin of Ptas 6.69/kg
Specific duty still to be calculated on the basis of a preferential margin of Ptas 6.69/kg.
 Free-at–Spanish frontier price
Regulatory duties Threshold price
13 530.46 45$ 04.04 G 1 b) 6. Other
2 * Modification of threshold customs duties
22 502.83 prices and,
Romadour , Herve , Ηarzer Käse , Fromage de Bruxelles , Stracchino, Cresceinza, Robiola, Livarot, Munster and
,St MARCELLIN which fulfil the conditions laid down in Note 2
04.04 0 1 b) 5. Other cheeses with a water content of moace than 62$ of the non-fatty matter
The modifications approved by the two delegations are given in annex.
The Community accepted the single-instalment price increases. The Spanish Delegation undertook not to increase prices during the 1975/76 milk year, which should finish on 29 February 1976 at the earliest .
The Spanish Delegation stated that it was not in a position to settle the problem of the preferential margin in the context of the consultations based ontheEEC/SpainAgreementof5June1970inrespectofcertaincheeses. It was of the opinion that this problem should be dealt with solely in the context ofnegotiationsontheEEC/SpainAgreementof20July1970# However,inorder to show its goodwill , the Spanish Delegation was prepared to increase the preferential margin from Ptas 6*30/k^to Ptas 6.69/kg on a temporary basis.
Moreover, it confirmed its desire to initiate further negotiations under the EEC/spain Agreement with an open mind and a positive attitude and with the aim of re-establishing the initial disparities between the erga
omnes prices and the preferential prices.
The Community considered that the Joint Declaration by the Contracting Parties on Article 8 of Annex II to the Agreement between the Community and Spain of 20 July 1970 specified clearly that the provisions of Article 8 of Annex II in no way prevented the threshold prices and the margin of Ptas 6.30/kg fixed therein from, being altered by agreement betweentheParties* However,itwishedtopointoutthatitappreciated the gesture made by the Spanish Delegation.
4* Automatic price increase
The Community stated that it was prepared to examine this problem in a favourable light with a view to solving it as soon as possible*
The reciprocal commitments set out in items 1 , 2 and 3 would enter into force as soon as possible, with account "being taken of the procedural requirements to be fulfilled by the two Partiest subject to the application of the new threshold prices to all countries*
Geneva. 25 February 1975
The Head of the Delegation of the The Head of the Spanish Delegation Commission of the European Communities
Spanish frontier pric
Soft óheese (Camemhe^^^ ^ Other soft oheese ' .
* : Other dheese
Other
2Speoifio duty of Ptas 5 485/100 kg i
V02 '';S-s J)1 a land b
Emmentaler, other ·
Other Prooessed' oheese
* # Κ« 'Kil/ Other prooeeeed oheese
Other prooessed' oheese fv Parmigiano,' Grana
Other
Other processed oheese
v > : it i
concluding the Agreement in the form of two Exchanges of Letters
amending the Agreement of 5 June 1970 between the European >"■
Economic Community and Spain on certain cheeses
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof;
Having regard to the Council Decision of 25 May 1970 authorizing the Commission in specific situations to enter into negotiation or consultation with third countries which are Contracting Parties to the GATT;
Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission;
Whereas at the request of Spain the Commission initiated consultations with
that country with a view to re-examining the prices of certain cheeses covered
by the Agreement of 5 June 1970 between the European Economic Community 2
and Spain, last amended on 10 July 1974 j whereas the Commission Delegation and the Spanish Delegation have reached an Agreement and whereas the provisions of that Agreement are acceptable;
The Agreement m the form of two Exchanges of Letters amending the Agreement of 5 June 1970 between the European Economic Community and Spain on certain cheeses is hereby concluded on behalf of the Community.
The text of the Agreement is annexed to this Regulation. Article 2
The President of the Council is hereby authorized to designate the person empowered to sign the Exchange of Letters referred to in Article 1 and to confer on him the powers required in order to bind the Community.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States,
Done at Brussels, For the Council ■ The President
in the form of two Exchanges of Letters amending the Agreement \ t
of 5 June 1970 "between the European Economic Community and. i
Upon the conclusion of the consultations which were initiated at the request
Spain on certain cheeses
of the Spanish Delegation with a view to modifying the threshold prices fixed j "by the Agreement of 5 June 1970 between Spain and the European Economic
1 Community, as last amended "by the Agreement of 10 July 1974» for imports into ;
Spain of certain cheeses, I note that the Spanish Delegation and the t delegation of the Commission of the European Communities have agreed on the !
following:
1 , The Spanish
Parmigiano Reggiano, Grana Padano, Pecorino and Fiore Sardo, whether or not grated or in powder, which fulfil the conditions laid downinHote2 '
Provolone, Asiago, Caciocavallo and Ragusano which fulfil the conditions laid down in Vote 2
Tariff shall be amended as follows :
Free-at-Spanish Customs Régulâtory Threshold
^Specific duty of Ptae 5 485/1OO kg. I
Limburger, Romadour, Herve Harzer Käse, Promage de Bruxelles, Stracchino, Crescenza, Robiola, Livarol » Munster and St Marcellin which fulfil the conditions
laid down in Note 2
Other cheeses with a water content of more than 62$ of the non-fatty matter
0/1.04 G 1 b 6 Other
?ree-at–Spanish frontier pÉice
2. The threshold prices applied "by Spain to imports of cheese, inclusive of the regulatory duty;
The free-at-Spanish frontier prices to be observed "before customs clearance, corresponding to the above threshold prices , and
The customs duties for the tariff headings in question, • are listed below? '
Eminentaler pieces
Emraentaler,' other Blue-veined oheeses Prooessed Emmentaler
Prooessed Emmentaler cneese
Other prooessed cheese Other processed cheese Other prooessed cheese Other prooessed cheese Parmigiano , Grana Other oheese {except ,
Other . soft oheese Other cheese
Other fresh oheese Other
Specific duty of Ptas 5 485/100 kg
Spanish frontier price
 I should "be grateful if you would confirm whether you are in agreement with the foregoing.
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.
On behalf of the Council of the European Communities
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter, which reads as follows :
♦•Upon the conclusion of the consultations which were initiated at the
request of the Spanish Delegation with a view to modifying the threshold prices fixed by the Agreement of 5 June 1970 "between Spain and the
European Economic Community, as last amended "by the Agreement of 10 July 1974, for imports into Spain of certain cheeses, I note that the Spanish Delegation and the delegation of the Commission of the European Communities have agreed on the following:
1 . The Spanish Customs Tariff shall he amended as follows :
Parmigiano Reggiano, Grana Padano, Pecorino and Piore Sardo, whether or not grated or in powder, which fulfil the conditions laid down
Provolone, Asiago, Caciocavallo and Ragusano which fulfil the.conditions laid down in Note 2
Free-at-Spanish frontier price
Customs Régulât ory duty duties
Spécifie duty of Ptae 5 485/1OO kg
Carré de l'Est, Reblochon, Porrt-1'Evêque, NeufchStel, Limburger, Rornadour, Herve, Harzer Käze, Promage de Bruxelles, Stracchino, Crescenza, Robiola, Livarot, Munster and St MarceHin which fulfil the conditions laid down in Note 2
Other cheeses with a water content of more than 62$ of the non-fatty matter
04.04G1b 6 Other
Free-at-SpaniEh Customs Regulatory Threshold
2. The threshold prices applied by Spain to imports of cheese inclusive of the regulatory duty;
The free-at-5panich frontier prices to be observed before customs clearance , corresponding to the above threshold prices , and
The customs duties for the tariff headings in question,
are listed below!
1 21 a and b
Whole Emmentaler cheeses 22 063.24 ν 3 315 ' "
Whole
Immentaler pisoes Emmentaler pieces Smmentaler pieces Emmentaler pieoes íámmentaler, others Blue–veined cheeses
Processed &mnentalgrQBe Other processed cheese
Othei* processed cheese Other processed cheese Cfiher processed cheese Parmigiano, Grana, Otherèheesa(except
Other soft* oheese Otheroheese
Other fresh oheese Other
Speoifio duty of Ptas 5 485/"!00 kg
I should Toe grateful if you would oonfirm whether you are in agreement with the foregoing."
I am able to confirm on "behalf of Spain, my agreement with the contents of this letter.
Please accept. Sir. the assurance of my highest consideration.
With reference to the exchange of letters initialled this day by our delegations concerning the increase in the threshold prices, free-at-frontier
prices and specific customs duties for certain cheeses and the modification of certain Spanish Customs Tariff headings, I note that with regard to tariff subheading 04*04 0 1b 3, the new wording of which is as follows, "Butterkase, Cantal, Edam, Pontal, Pontina, Gouda, Italico, Kernhem,
Mimolette, St Nectaire, St Paulin, Tilsit, Haverti, Daribo, Samsoe, Itynbo, Mw- rjbo", the preferential margin separating the threshold price "er^a omries" from that applicable to the Community is inoreased from Ptas 6,30 'kf to
Ptas 6.69/kg. The corresponding free-at-Spanish frontier price to be observe*
by the Community is consequently fixed at Ptas H.785/IOO kg. The specific customs duty is Ptas 5*485/100 kg.
I would be grateful if you would confirm whether you are in agreement with the foregoing.
Please aocept, Sir, the aBsuranoe of my highest consideration.
On behalf of the Council of the European Communities
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter, the content of which is as follows:
"With reference to the exchange of letters initialled this day "by our delegations concerning the increase in the threshold prices, free–at-frontier prices and specific customs duties for certain cheeses and the modification of certain Spanish Customs Tariff headings, I note that with regard to tariff subheading 04*04 0 1 b) 3, the new wording of which is as follows: "Butterkase Cantal, Edam, Pontal, Fontina, Gouda, Italico, Kernhem, Mimolette, St Nectaire St Paulin, Tilsit, Haverti, Danbo, Samsoe, Rynbo, Maribo", the preferential
margin separating the threshold prioe "erga omnes" from that applicable to the Community is increased from Ptas 6.30/kg to Ptas 6.69/kg. The corresponding free-at-Spanish frontier price to be observed by the Community is conaermently fixed at Ptas II.785/IOO kg. The speoific oustoms duty is Ptas 5.4P5/100 k#%
I should be grateful if you would confirm whether you are in agreement with the foregoing;"
I am able to confirm, on behalf of Spain, my agreement with the content of this letter.
Please aooept, Sir, the assurance of ray highest consideration.
Smelteost på basis a Bnmental
Aooord CES/Espagns concernant certains fromages*
Objet i accord CEE/Espagne concernant certains fromages
co frontière
Autreτ fromages frais îTon dénommés
Objet i aocord CEE/Eepagne concernant certaine fromages
D1 a und b DI c
Objet i accord CEE/Espagne concernant certains fromages
Consultations with Spain on certain cheeses in the context of the EEC/Spain Agreement of 5 June 1970 concluded pursuant to
Article XIX of the GATT
The Commission is presenting to the Council:
1 . A report on its consultations with Spain (Annex i )
2. A recommendation for a Council regulation concluding the Agreement in the form of two Exchanges of Letters amending the Agreement of
5 June 1970 "between the European Economic Community and Spain on certain cheeses
The Commission recommends that the Council conclude the said Agreement .
on the results of consultations with Spair cn certain cheeses in the context of the EEC/Spain Agreement of 5 June 1970 concluded pursuant to Article XIX of GATT
The Spanish Government requested under Article 8 of the Agreement referred to above that consultations "be held with the Community. These consultations took place on 3 and on 24 and 25 February 1975 in Geneva.
A. The! Spanish Delegation 's requests
Spain made the following requests:
1. Increase of between 17$ and 21$ in threshold prices and free-at-frontier prices depending on the type of cheese.
It should be pointed out that the increase in threshold prices requested, by the Spanish Delegation for whole Emmentaler cheeses of Community qualify was
larger than for those of Swiss quality.
In support of this request the Spanish Delegation mentioned the increase in the price of milk for the 1975/76 marketing year compared with the price for the previous marketing year of Ptas 2/litre from 1 February 1975 and another Ptas l/litre from 1 September 1975* The new threshold prices proposed by Spain were calculated on the basis of an average increase (weighted pro rata temporis) of Ptas 2.8o/litre in the price 6f milk.
2. Increase in specific duties commensurate with the increase in threshold prices .
According to the Spanish Delegation an increase in threshold prices automatically
leads to a commensurate increase in specific duties. \
3 . Introduction of
a threshold price for the following cheeses :
According to the Spanish Delegation this is justified by the considerable increase , during the last few months , in imports of cheese at very low prices from certain countries, including Belgium, which, according to Spanish statistics , appears to have quadrupled its exports to Spain of cheese of the Asiago, Provolone and Grana Padano type between 1973 and 1974 (from 185 t
in 1973 to 783 t in 1974) at very low prices (Ptas/kg).
4. Revision of the Agreement with a view to introducing automatic index linking of threshold prices and specific customs duties to increases in the price of milk in Spain.
B. The Community Delegation's requests
1 . On this occasion the Community reminded the Spanish Delegation of the importance which the Community attaches to solving a number of problems which have been outstanding for quite some time, namely:
(a) inclusion of St Marcellin cheeses and other soft cheeses such as Caprice des Dieux, Suprême des Ducs, Petit Pâtre, Crème des Prés, Coeur de Normandie, etc., intheAgreement;
(b) inclusionoftheDanishcheesesHavarti, Danbo, Samsoe, FynboandMaribo■ under heading No O4.O4 G I b 3 of the Spanish tdriff , thereby qualifying . for Community preference on the same conditions as cheeses of the category
2. DuringtheconsultationstheCommunityrepresentativeraisedthequestion of the delay on the part of the Spanish authorities in granting the import licenses requested at the beginning of December 1974 for 66 tonnes of Belgian cheese of the Asiago type. He made a formal request for the licences in question to be granted without delay.
C. Outcome of the consultations
After having asked at several points in the consultations for the opinion of theArticle 113Committee,whichtookpartintheconsultationstogetherwith the experts on milk products, the Community Delegation was able to conclude the consultations with Spain ad referendum.
 The results of the consultations are reported in annex in the approved minutes. They may "be summarized as follows:
1. IncreaseinthresholdpricesintheproportionsrequestedbySpain,except for that of whole Emmentaler cheeses of Community quality.
For whole Emmentaler cheeses , the margin representing the difference in quality "between cheese of Swiss quality and cheese of Community quality, which amounted to Ptas 852.95/100 kg was increased to Ptas 1 052.95/100 kg, thereby reducing "byPtas200/100kgthethresholdpriceproposedforCommunityquality. The
effect of this was to improve the Community^ competitive position and reduce the increase of 21$ requested "by Spain to 19*8$.
2. Increase in specific duties on whole Emmentaler cheeses of Community quality from Ptas 3 500/100 kg to Ptas 4 000/l00 Kg, i.e. 14^2$>, instead of Ptas 4 248/100 kg, i.e. 21.4/o, requested "by Spain.
The Spanish request was met in respect of other specific duties for which Spain requested increases of about ^Tfo.
3. Theincreaseinthresholdpricesistobemadeinasingleinstalment. Spain has promised not to request additional price increases during the 1975/76 milk year.
4. ThepreferentialmarginofPtas6.30/kgforcheesesofthecategory comprizing Gouda, Edam, etc. laid down in the Agreement between the Community and Spain of 20 July 1970 is temporarily increased to Ptas 6.69/kg'.
the Spanish tariffj there is no threshold price for products under this heading provision being made for a token regulatory duty of Ptas 1/100 kg.
6. SoftcheesessuchasCapricedesDieux,SuprêmedesDucs,PetitPâtre, CrfemedesPr€s,CoeurdeNormandie,etc. areincludedintheAgreementunder a new tariff heading created for this purpose (04.04 G I b 5 : other cheeses with a water content of more than 62% of the non-fatty matter) with the same
threshold price as that fixed erga oanes for cheeses of the category comprizing Edam,Gouda,etc. andwithatokenregulatorydutyofPtas100/100kg.
7. TheDanishcheesesHavarti,Danbo,Samsoe,FynboandMaribowillbe included under heading Ho 04«04 G I b 3 of the Spanish tariff and will come under the preferential system.
 8. Introduction of a threshold price of Ptas 20 283.82/100 kg (the same as
that fixed erga omnes for the category comprising Edam. Gouda, etc.) for 4
the following headings of the Spanish tariff:
However, Spain is no longer pressing for the introduction of a threshold price for soft cheeses such as Camembert , Brie , etc .
The Belgian Delegation reserved its position with regard to the agreement
reached,^' owing to difficulties experienced when exporting Asiago cheeses.
The Italian Delegation also reserved its position on the outcome of the consultations as a whole .
At its meeting of 6 March 1975 in Geneva, the Article 113 Committee delivered a favourable opinion on the conclusion of the Agreement .
On this occasion the Belgian and Italian Delegations withdrew the reservations they had expressed on the ad referendum Agreement .
The Commission recommends that the Council should conclude, pursuant to Article 113 of the Treaty, the draft exchanges of letters given in
Annex lib and lie . These drafts incorporate in full the points of agreement recorded in the minutes approved by the two delegations at the end
of the consultations . The Commission is accordingly presenting the draft regulation contained in Annex II a.
conditions laid down in Note 2
Provolone, Asiago, Caciocavallo and Ragusano, which fulfil the conditions laid down in Note 2 .
At the end of the consultations which were initiated at the request of the
Spanish Delegation under the EE^/Spain Agreement of 5 June 1970, the Spanish and the EEC Delegations agreed on the following, subject to the approval of their respective authorities .
1 • Introduction of threshold prices for certain cheeses
For certain cheeses (listed "below) the Spanish import arrangements would "be modified as follows subsequent to completion of the statutory procedure :
Free-at-Spanish frontier price
Regulatory duties Threshold price
04.04 G 1 a) 1 . Parmigiano Reggiano , Grana Padano , Pecorino and Fiore sardo , whether or not grated or powdered, which fulfil the
Still to be calculated on the basis of a preferential margin of Ptas 6.69/kg
Still to he calculated
on the basis of a
preferential margin of
Specific duty of Ptas 5 485.08/100 kg.
2Specific duty still to be calculated on the basis of a preferential margin of Ptas 6.69/kg.
 Pree-at-Spanish frontier price
Regulatory duties Threshold price
St MARCELLET which fulfil the conditions laid down in Hôte 2
04.04 G 1 b) 5· Other cheeses with a water content of mojre than 62% of the non-fatty matter
13 530.46 45$ 100 22 502.83 04.04 G 1 b) 6. Other
2. Modification of threshold prices t free-at-Spanish frontier prices and customs duties
The modifications approved by the two delegations are given in annex.
The Community accepted the single-instalment price increases . The Spanish Delegation undertook not to increase prices during the 1975/76 milk year, which should finish on 20 February 1976 at the earliest .
 3 . Preferential margin for cheeses of the category comprizing Edam , Gouda t etc .
The Spanish Delegation stated that it was not in a position to settle the
problem of the preferential margin in the context of the consultations "based
on the EEC/Spain Agreement of 5 June 1970 in respect of certain cheeses. It was of the opinion that this problem should "be dealt with solely in the context of negotiations on the EEC/Spain Agreement of 20 July 1970. However, in order to show its goodwill, the Spanish Delegation was prepared to increase the preferential margin from Ptas 6.30/kg-to Ptas 6.69/kg on a temporary "basis.
Moreover, it confirmed its desire to initiate further negotiations under the EEC/Spain Agreement with an open mind and a positive attitude and with the aim of re-establishing the initial disparities between the er^ra
omnes prices and the preferential prices.
The Community considered that the Joint Declaration by the Contracting Parties on Article 8 of Annex II to the Agreement between the Community and Spain of 20 July 1970 specified clearly that the provisions of Article 8 of Annex II in no way prevented the threshold prices and the margin of Ptas 6.30/kg fixed therein from. being altered by agreement between the Parties. However, it wished to point out that it appreciated the gesture made by the Spanish Delegation.
4 . Automatic price increase
The Community stated that it was prepared to examine this problem in a favourable light with a view to solving it as soon as possible.
The reciprocal commitments set out in items 1,2 and 3 would enter into force as soon as possible , with account being taken of the procedural requirements to be fulfilled "by the two Parties, subject to the application of the new threshold prices to all countries.
Geneva, 25 February 1975
The Head of the Delegation of the The Head of the Spanish delegation Commission of the European Communities
DI a and b Dl c
Whole Emmentaler cheeses
Whole Emmentaler cheeses
Emmentaler , other Blue-Veined cheeses Processed Emmentaler,
Processed Emmentaler, cheese
Other Processed- cheese
Other processed cheese «»1
Other processed cheese Other processed cheese Parmi giano , Grana
Other cheese„(except x
Other soft cheese Other dheese
Spanish frontier pric <
G2 Other
^Specific duty of Ptas 5 485/100 kg "^Specific duty of Ptas 5 303/109 kg
concluding the Agreement in the form of two Exchanges of Letters
amending the Agreement of 3 June^ 1970 between the European Economic Community and Spain on certain cheeses
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof;
Having regard to the Council Decision of 25 May 1970 authorizing the Commission in specific situations to enter into negotiation or consultation with third countries which are Contracting Parties to the GATT;
Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission;
Whereas at the request of Spain the Commission initiated consultations with
that country with a view to re-examining the prices of certain cheeses covered 1
"by the Agreement of 5 June 1970 between the European Economic Community
and Spain, last amended on 10 July 1974 » whereas the Commission Delegation
and the Spanish Delegation have reached an Agreement and whereas the provisions of that Agreement are acceptable;
The Agreement m the form of two Exchanges of Letters amending the Agreement of 5 June 1970 between the European Economic Community and Spain on certain cheeses is hereby concluded on behalf of the Community.
The text of the Agreement is annexed to this Regulation. Article 2
The President of the Council is hereby authorized to designate the person empowered to sign the Exchange of Letters referred to in Article 1 and to confer on him the powers required in order to bind the Community.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels. For the Council The President
in the form of two Exchanges of Letters amending the Agreement
of 5 June 1970 "between the European Economic Community and Spain on certain cheeses
Upon the conclusion of the consultations which were initiated at the request of the Spanish Delegation with a view to modifying the threshold prices fixed "by the Agreement of 5 June 1970 between Spain and the European Economic Community, as last amended "by the Agreement of 10 July 1974, for imports into Spain of certain cheeses, I note that the Spanish Delegation and the delegation of the Commission of the European Communities have agreed on the following :
1 . The Spanish Customs Tariff shall be amended as follows :
Parmigiano Reggiano, Grana Padano, Pecorino and Fiore Sardo, whether or not grated or in powder, which fulfil the conditions laid downinNote2 ·
Provolone, Asiago, Caciocavallo and Ragusano which fulfil the conditions laid down in Note 2
Free-at-Spanish frontier price
Specific duty of Ptas 5 485/1OO kg. I
Crescenza , Robiola , Livarot t Munster and St Karcellin which fulfil the conditions
laid down in Note 2
Other cheeses with a water content of more than 62$ of the non-fatty matter
04.04 G 1 b 6 Other
Free-at-Spanish frontier piice
2. The threshold prices applied by Spain to imports of cheese, inclusive of the regulatory duty;
The free-at-Spanish frontier prices to be observed before customs clearance , corresponding to the above threshold prices , and
The customs duties for the tariff headings in question, are listed below :
Whole üSnmentaler cheeses Whole. Emmentaler cheeses Emmentaler pieces Emmentaler pieces
Emmentaler, other Blue-veined cheeses
Processed Emmentaler cneese
Processed Emmentaler cneese
a and "b c
Other processed cheese
Othér processed cheese
Other processed cheese
Other processed cheese
Other cneese ^except . \ 22 280.80
Other , soft cheese Other cheese
Other fresh cheese Other
■ -Variable regulatory duty ^Specific duty of Ptas 5 485/IOO kg
 I should "be grateful if you would confirm whether you are m agreement with k
the foregoing.
Please accept, Si:-, the assurance of my highest consideration.
On oehalf of the Council of the European Communities
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter, which reads as follows :
"Upon the conclusion of the consultations which were initiated at the
request of the Spanish Delegation with a view to modifying the threshold prices fixed by the Agreement of 5 June 1970 between Spain and the
European Economic Community, as last amended by the Agreement of 10 July 1974, for imports into Spain of certain cheeses, I note that the Spanish Delegation and the delegation of the Commission of the European Communities have agreed on the following:
1 . The Spanish Customs Tariff shall be amended as follows :
Free-at-Spanish Customs Regulatory Threshold
Parmigiano Reggiano , Grana Padano, Pecorino and Fiore Sardo, whether or not grated or in powder, which fulfil the conditions laid down
Provolone, Asiago, Caciocavallo and Ragusano whichfulfilthe.conditions laid down in Note 2
Spécifie duty of Ptas 5 485/100 kg.
which fulfil the conditions laid down in Note 2
Other cheeses with a water content of more than 62fo of the non–fatty matter
04.04 G 1 b 6 Other
Pree-at-Spanish frontier price
2. The threshold prices applied, "by Spain to imports of cheese inclusive of the regulatory duty;
The free-at-Spanich frontier prices to "be observed "before customs clearance , corresponding to the above threshold prices , and
The customs duties for the tariff headings in question ,
: DI a and b i Dl c
itfhole Emmentaler cheeses Emmentaler pieces Emmentaler pieces Emmentaler pieces Emmentaler pieces
¿inmentaler,others Blue-veined cheeses Processed Emmentaler
Processed Emmentaler cheese
Other processed cheese
Other processed cheese
Other processed cheese
tfther processed cheese
Other èheese (except Cheddar '
Other soft cheese Other cheese
Other fresh cheese Other
^Specific duty of Ptas 5 485/IOO kg
 I should "be grateful if you would confirm whether you are m agreement with the foregoing."
I am able to confirm on behalf of Spain, my agreement with the content of this letter.
Please accept, Sir, "the assurance of my highest consideration.
With reference "to the exchange of letters initialled this day by our delegations concerning the increase in the threshold prices, free-at-frontier prices and specific customs duties for certain cheeses and the modification of certain Spanish Customs Tariff headings, I note that with regard to tariff subheading 04.04 G 1 b 3, the new wording of which is as follows, "Butterkase, Cantal,- Edam, Fontal, Fontina, Gouda, Italico, Kernhem, Mimolette, St Nectaire, St Paulin, Tilsit, Haverti, Danbo, Samsoe, Itynbo, Ma­ ribo", the preferential margin separating the threshold price "er^a omnes" from that applicable to the Community is increased from Ptas 6.30'k;1" to
Ptas 6.69fkg. The corresponding free-at-Spanish frontier price to be observed by the Community is consequently fixed at Ptas H .785/IOO kg. The snecific
customs duty is Ptas 5*485/100 kg.
I would be grateful if you would confirm whether you are in agreement with the foregoing.
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration.
On behalf of the Council of the European Communities
I have "the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter, the content of which is as follows:
"With reference to the exchange of letters initialled this day "by our delegations concerning the increase in the threshold prices, free-at-frontier prices and specific customs duties for certain cheeses and the modification
of certain Spanish Customs Tariff headings, I note that with regard to tariff subheading 04.04 G 1 b) 3, the new wording of which is as follows: "Butterkase Cantal, Edam, Pontal, Fontina, Gouda, Italico, Kernheun, Mimolette, St Nectaire St Paulin , Tilsit , Haverti , I>anbo , Samsoe , Rynbo , Maribo", the preferential margin separating the threshold price "erga omnes" from that applicable to the Community is increased from Ptas 6.30/W P^as 6.69/kg. The correspondinp- free-at-Spanish frontier price to be observed by the Community is consecruentlv fixed at Ptas II.785/IOO kg. The specific customs duty is Ptas 5»4^5/lOO kr.
I should be grateful if you would confirm whether you are in agreement with the foregoing;"
I am able to confirm, on behalf of Spain, my agreement with the content of this letter .
Please accept , Sir , the assurance of my highest consideration .
