In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have
on the den
affixed their signature below this Agreement#
 Date Council Decision Desired :
Before end LTovernber
There is a clear necessity of signing the agreement "before the end of the year so as to respect the importance attached to this accession, reflected by the decision of the ACP/SEC Council of Ministers in July#
In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have
affixed their signature below this Agreement.
on the den
';v^ :; • There' is a clear,- necessity of ;
stgreement before the end signing the agreement before
'^T.' Jk •A '' *' 'Of- year so
of tM.ACP/EBC Council of Ministers
»' > . as itoar
by the decision
. importance attached .to !this
 PART 1 : INTERVENTION APPROPRIATIONS (for existing and new projects)
Article 236 of the EEC Treaty
for the 1976 Budget ' • *"« „ * - -9
(a) Revenue part: Title 1, Chapters 10, "H and 12
(a) Revenue: Reduction in the levies, duties and charges imposed on imports into the territory of the EEC of products exported *.r
by Papua New Guinea following the accession of this country
to the Lome Convention and 'in accordance with the provisions of the Convention , in particular those of Titles I , II and III , and the provisions of the Protocols and Agreements annexed thereto.
(b) Expenditure: The accession to the Lome Convention of the above States has no effect on the Community budget, since the increase in the EDF's resources necessitated by the accession of these countries will" have to be covered by an additional financial contribution from the
Measure applicable throughout the period of validity of the Lome Convention .
Reverue : The reductions in revenue occasioned by the accession of Papua.New. Guinea.are difficult to estimate In advance since their scale will ' depend on the resulting fluctuations in the volume and value of the
EEC's imports# j Given the present volume of the EEC's imports from
tkis-country .andthenatureofthe-goods-concerned,thereductions
will in any event he very small.] In addition, the special,arrangements' -
which apply under Article 116 of the Accession Ereaty limit the existing
revenue from customs duty to EEC Member States other thanJOK. Nevertheless, on the basis of imports to the Conaunit# from Papua New Guinea.in 1975V the loss of revenue
Control arrangements provided foi* in the Financial Regulation of 25 April 1973-
The Iocs of revenue cannot be quantified from the accounting viewpoint at the prese.it stage.
The
project will be carried out with the Commission's, existing staff.
As regards the "reduction of reveAue" part, the cost of the project will be borne by the Corrjaunity budget.
As regards the "expenditure" part, the project will have no effect en
the Conii-nunity budget, but will be financed from the new EDF appropriation.
The Commission Decision of 2b November 1973 on now budget procedures
mentions the need to draw up a "financial memorandum" for each new project, consisting of the two parts of this financial record.
- Cornunication to the Council on negotiations with Papua New Guinea with a view to its accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lom<§
– Draft Proposal for a Council Regulation on the advance implementation of certain provisions of the ACP/EEC Convention of Lome relating to
trade in respect of certain States that have signed Agreements of Accession to the Convention
Negotiationswith Papua New Guinea took place in Brussels on 29 October. These revealed no problems of substance and an exchange of letters agreeing the text of the agreement took place.
2. It is accordingly proposed that the Commission approves the accompanying draft communication to the Council and draft proposal for a Council Regulation together with their annexes. Both require consultation of the European Parliament. However, the Parliament
is consulted} in the case of the agreement itself, only after its signature* In the case of the regulation concerning the advanced implementation of certain provisions of the Convention relating to trade, it is, on the other hand, necessary to consult the Parliament before signature so. as to avoid delay of application.
on the negotiations between the Community and:
with a view to its accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lom£
on the negotiations between the Community and Papua New Guinea
with a view to its accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lom£
1. The negotiations between the Conmunity and Papua New Guinea
with a view to its accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lome were held in Brussels on 29 October 1976 (see detailed report Annex IV).
At the close of those negotiations, the Community Delegation and the Delegation of Papua New Guinea gave their fall approval to the
text of the draft Agreement in an exchange of letters between the Heads of Delegation*
The text of the 'Agreement" embodies the results of the negotiations conducted on the basis of the Council Directives of 1 October
2. The Comission considers that it has fulfilled its negotiating task in accordance with those directives and recommends that the Council
approvesthe results of the negotiations, namely :
the Agreement on the accession of Papua New Guinea to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lome (Annex i ) ;
and the draft Pinal Act (Annex II ),
and initiatesthe procedure for the signing and conclusion of this Agreement .
To this end, the Commission is forwarding herewith to the Council a recommendation for regulation concluding the Agreement (Annex III ).
3. The Commission considers that when the Accession Agreement is signed there should be an exchange of letters with the acceding State on the advance implementation of certain provisions of the Lome Convention. To this
end., the Comission forwards a draft exchange of letters (Annex V). A proposal for a Council Regulation relating to this question is being transmitted separately to this Council s» as to facilitate consultation of "the European Parliament*
4. Since Papua New Guinea is an archipelago, its sain island being shared with part of Indonesia, it should automatically be included in the list of ACP States in Article 24 of the Convention. On the other hand, the Commission makes no recommendation for its inclusion in the list of countries covered by Article 48 (2) of the Convention.
5. The Commission has already separately communicated to the Council
a draft Internal Agreement amending the Internal Agreement on the financing and administration of Conaunity aid signed on 11 July 1973
(COM (76) 448 Final of 8 September 1976) to take account of the accession of Papua Hew Guinea (and Sao Tomer e Principe and Cape Verde).
6. By analogy with the arrangements made in 1975 in respect of the ACP countries, the CoBmission also transmits a draft Decision of the Council
relating to the introduction of certain interim measures in the field of financial and technical cooperation (Annex VI )•
7* A communication has been transmitted in respect of the negotia­ tions between the Community and Sao Tome, e Principe and Cape Verde
(CCM (76) 450 Pinal of 8 September 1976).
on the accession of Papua Few Guinea to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lom6
Contracting Parties to the Treaty establishing-the European Community, (hereinafter called "the Community") signed at Rome on 25 March 1957»
whose States are hereinafter referred to as "Member States" and THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,
on the one hand, and
on the other hand,
HAVING REGARD to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community
hereinafter called the "Treaty", «
HAVING REGARD td the ACP-EEC Convention of Lorn# between the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the European Economic Community, signed at Lom£ on 28 February 1975 and hereinafter called the "Convention", and in particular Article 30 thereof,
WHEREAS Papua New Guinea has applied to accede to the Convention; WHEREAS the ACP-EEC Council of Ministers has approved the application
HAVE "nffSTTWgn to conclude an Agreement on the accession of Papua New Guinea to the Convention, and to this end have designated as their Plenipotentiariesi
WHO, having exchanged their Full Powers, found in good and due form, HIVE AGREED AS FOLLOWS :
1* By this Agreement Papua New Guinea accedes to the Convention.
2* Save as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the provisions of
the Convention and also the decisions and other implementing measures
taken "by the institutions of the Convention shall apply to Papua New Guinea*
The time limits laid down "by the Convention and calculated from the entry into force of the Convention shall for the "purpose of application to
Papua New Guinea "be calculated from the entry into force of this Agreement#
As regards the Community, this Agreement shall be validly concluded by a decision of the Council of the European Communities taken in conformity with the provisions of the Treaty and notified to the Parties. ItshallberatifiedbytheSignatoryStatesinconformity with their respective constitutional requirements#
The instruments of ratification and the act of notification of the
conclusion of the Agreement shall be deposited, as regards Papua New Guinea, with the Secretariat of the Council of the European Communities and, as regards the Community and the Member States, with the Secretariat oftheACPStates. TheSecretariatsshallforthwithgivenoticethereof to the signatory States and the Community#
This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of deposit of the instruments of ratification of the Member States and of Papua New Guinea, and of the act of notification of the conclusion of the Agreement by the Community.
^The Protocol annexed to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof­
This Agreement| drawn up in two copies in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German and Italian languages, all texts being equally authentic,
shall be deposited in the archives of the Secretariat of the Council of the European Communities and the Secretariat of the ACP States, which shall both transmit a certified copy to the Government of each of the Signatory
In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have 1
 affixed their signature below this Agreement. '
on the den
concerning -the transitional arrangements for "the issue of certificates of origin
Have agreed upon the following provisions, which are annexed to the Agreement :
Goods which conform to the provisions of Protocol No 1 to the ACP-1L2C Convention of Loml on the concept of "originating" products and which,
on the date of entry into force of the Agreement, are being transported, or are held in the Community or in an ACP State under temporary warehouse procedure, in bonded warehouses or in free zones (including free ports and free entrepSts) may be allowed to benefit from the provisions of the Agreement, subject to the submission to the Customs authorities of the importing country, within four months of the said date, of:
(a) a certificate HJR.1 issued retrospectively by the Customs authorities of the exporting State , or
(b) a certificate of origin issued by the competent authorities of that State ,
and, in either case, any documents that provide supporting evidence of
 The Plenipotentiaries of
THE COUNCIL OP THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, of the one part, and
of the other part ,
meeting at on for *
the purpose of signing an Agreement on the accession of
to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome between the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the European Economic Community, have adopted the following texts : •'
the Agreement on the accession of to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lomé,
and the following Protocols î
Protocol No on the transitional arrangements for the issue of ' ' certificates of origin.
The Plenipotentiaries have approved the Declarations listed below, which constitute Annexes I to XIII to the Pinal Act of the ACP-EEC Convention
signed in Lom€ on 28 February 1975s .
1. Joint Declaration on the presentation of the Convention to CATT (Annex I) 2. Joint Declaration on Article 11(4) of the Convention (Annex II)
3. Joint Declaration on Article 59(6) of the Convention (Annex III).
on Article 60 of the Convention (Annes IV)
on representation of regional economic groupings
89 of the Convention (Annex VI) 4(1) of Protocol No 2 (Annex VII) 20(c) of Protocol No 2 (Annex VIII) 22 of Protocol No 2 (Annex IX)
23 of Protocol No 2 (Annex X)
26 of Protocol No 2 (Annex XI)
on trade between the European Economic Community and
and Swaziland (Annex XII)*
13. Joint Déclaration conceming possible reqfuests for participation in Protocol No 3 (Annex XIII)
The Plenipotentiary of has also taken note of the Declarations listed below, which constitute Annexes XIV to XXIV to the Pinal Act of the ACP-EEC Convention signed in Lome on 28 February 1975:
1. Declaration by the Community on Article 2 of the Convention (Annex XIV)
2. Declaration by the Community on Article 3 of the Convention (Annex XV)
3. Declaration by the Community on Article 10(2) of the Convention (Annex XVI)
4. Declaration by the Community on the unit of account referred to in Article 42 of the Convention (Annex XVII)
5. Declaration by the Community on Article 3 of Protocol No 2 (Annex XVIII)
6. Declaration by the Community on Article 4(3) of Protocol No 2 (Annex XIX)
7. Declaration by the Community on any additional financing by the European Investment Bank during the implementation of the Convention (Annex XX)
8. Declaration by the Community concerning sugar originating in Belize, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla and Surinam (Annex XXI)
9. Declaration by the Community on Article 10 of Protocol No 3 (Annex XXII)
10. Declaration by the representative of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the definition of German nationals
11. Declaration by the representative of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the application to Berlin of the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome (Annex XXIV)
£ The Plenipotentiaries have also adopted the text of the following Declaration annexed to this Final Act :
Furthermore, the Plenipotentiary of has taken note of the following Declaration annexed to this Final Act: 7
In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have affixed their signatures below this Final Act.
concluding the Agreement
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 238 thereof,
Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission, Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament*,
Whereas an Agreement on the accession of
to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome^ between the African, Caribbean and
Pacific States and the European Economic Community, hereinafter called the
"Convention", and a Pinal Act were signed in ; •> *
Whereas it should be ensured that acta of the Institutions of the Community - both those currently in force and those adopted subsequently - vhich use the expression "the ACP States" apply to .
The Agreement on the accession of ' to the Convention, and the Pinal Act and the Declarations annexed thereto, are hereby concluded, approved and confirmed on behalf of the European Economic Community.
The texts of the Agreement and the Final Act are annexed to this Regulation*
The President of the Council is hereby authorized, as regards the Community, to deposit the act of notification of the conclusion of the Agreement, in accordance with Article of the Agreement.
Save where otherwise provided, any mention of the "ACP States'* in the
acts of the Institutions of the Community shall also apply to -This shall apply from the entry into force of the Agreement.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicabl in all Member States.
For the Council The President
with a view to their accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lorn?
PNG officially applied for membership of the Lome Convention on 3December1975* InitscommunicationtotheCouncilof25February 1976 (COM (76) 66 Pinal) the Commission suggested that the Community should react by adopting a favourable position of principle
and that the Commission should exchange information with the PUG authorities#
Following the formal approval of the PNG request by the ACP/EEC Council at its first meeting in Brussels on 14 – 15 July 1976, and £n:-the light of exploratory talks with PNG officials, the Commission made recommendation to the Council for a Decision to open negotiations
(COM(76)448Final), ThisCommunicationalsoincludedadraft Internal Agreement amending the Internal Agreement on the financing and administration of Community aid signed on 11 July 1975
(without figures).
At its meeting of4-5 October 1976the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with PNG (Council Document S/I490/76)
The negotiations took place on 29 October and were conducted by the Commission on behalf of the Community with representatives of theMemberStatespresentasobservers# Thenegotiationswere preceded by a coordination meeting between the Commission and the Member States with the Council occupying the Chair.
In accordance with the directives laid down by the Council, the negotiations covered all the Titles of the Convention and Title II
in particular, with the exception^ however, of Article 48(2) (Title IV) andtheamountoffinancialaidtobeearmarked. Atthecloseof
these negotiations, the Community Delegation and the Delegation
of Papua Hew Guinea respectively recorded their agreement on a >
draft Agreement, in an exchange of letters between the Heads of Delegation#
The PNG representative acknowledged the obligations of the Lome Convention and gave his Government's assurance of their intention
toobservethem* Headditionallyraisedfourotherquestions#
– ThePNGGovernmentsought"theanticipatedapplicationof certain trade measures (Title I, Chapter I of the Lo&$* Convention, TheProtocolNo.loftheLomSConventionon origin, and the Joint Declaration on Fishing activities annexed to the Convention).
A proposal for an exchange of letters on the advance inple- ■entation of certain provisions of the Convention covering thesequestionsisattachedatAnnexY. Atthesametime,a separate proposal for a Council Regulation on this advance implementation la "being submitted to" the Council.
- ThePNGrepresentativealsosoughtthattheCommissionshouldreport
inArticle48(2)oftheLom£Convention.(Leastdeveloped). The
representativeofPUGstatedthat theUNstatisticsforG13Pper capita (^ US 477) were falsified because of the large sector of
the economy subsidised by Australian aid, particularly in respect of salaries,CThe true figure was nearer US ft 277)» level of industrialisationinPNGwasextremelylow. 96$ofthelandeconomy wassubsistencefarming. Theenvironmentwasrugged,the toporraphy hindered communications and the population unevenly distributed .
The Community representative took note of these desiderata
and, without making any commitmentf undertook to transmit these to the Council ofthe European CowBunitlas in his report.
The considerations set out "by the PNG ©©legation serve to confirm the preliminary views of the Commission that the developmentlevelofPNGis notaccuratelyreflectedby theofficialfiguresofFUGpercapita, nevertheless,
. althoughmuchofwhatthePNGrepresentativeoutlinedwill be examined in depth on the basis of documentary evidence, the Commission does not believe that it can go so far as to
support the case for inclusion of PNG in Article 48(2). Even on the basis of the figures put.forward by the . PUG Delegation, this would not be justified.
- ThePNGGovermentwaslikelytonegotiateafreetradeagreement inthenearfuturewithAustralia. Thisagreementwouldbe entirely compatible with the provisions of the LomS Convention and no preferences would be extended to Australia.
When pressed for assurances on this point, the PNG Delegation emphasised that the agreement with Australia would be non- preferential and would be negotiated with the Lom£ Convention fullyinmind. Copiesoftheagreementwouldbemadeavailable for scrutiny attheearliestpossibleoccasion.
Finally, PNG which was in the process of finalising its development plan would keep the Community fully informed of its objectives and priorities in the field of E3F programming.
- InpreliminarydiscussionamongtheMemberStatesparticular reference was made by oneDelegation to problems arising from
possiblespecialarrangementsregardingthe movementof capital and rights of establishment subsisting between PUG and
Australia. Followinganexploratoryexchangeonthesequestions
the following information has been ms.de available*
Prior to January 197^ Papua ITew Guinea vias part of the Australian Monetary System, hence no exchange control existed between PNG and Australia, whereas there were
exchange control regulations governing movement of foreign exchange between PUG and other foreign countries.
In January 1976 PITG amended its exchange regulations, and exchange arrangements with Australia were brought into line withthoseapplyingtoothercountries. Allforeignpayments requiretheapprovaloftheBankofPapuaHewGuinea. ITo restrictions are placed on current payments or capital
repaymentsduetooverseasresidents. Restrictionsare
placed on investment overseas by PITG residents and by FUG IncorporatedCompanies. Theserestrictions,however,areimposed onanondiscriminatorybasis. TemporaryresidentsinPITG,
including EEC nationals, are free to remit their earnings 1.0 any overseas destination.
The only discriminatory aspect of PlIG's exchange regulations related to the ban on trade with Rhodesia, pursuant to the TOT
Resolution on this matter.
I-lith respect to the establishment of individuals, Papua Hew Guinea does not maintain any practices which discriminate between Foreign nationals. • The Employment (training and regulation)
Act 1971 provides for the gazettal of prohibited and restricted categoriesofemployment. OnlyPITGnationalsmaybeemployedin prohibitedcategoriesofemployment. Non-nationals'maybe employedinrestrictedcategories, ofwork, providedthatthe trainingofnationalsisundertaken, eitherintheformof
on-the-jobtrainingorapprenticeshiptraining. Workpermits arerequiredbyallnon-nationals. Inissuingworkpermits, favoured treatment is not given to nationals of any country,
In respect of the establishment of companies, no preferences are giventoAustralianfirms. Certainactivitiesarerestrictedto
national firms only. Decisions on the establishment of foreign companies in Papua Few Guinea are taken on the
"basis of commercial considerations, not on the "basis of nationality of the investor.
There are no aspects of PlTG*s legislation that discriminate against nationals or firms of the Member States of the EEJC. Furthermore, there are no informal arrangements operated
in favour- of Australia or any other foreign country.
; Against this background the Government of PITG has informed the Commission that it sees no difficulty in accepting Title 7 of the Lom£ Convention fully and without qualification.
The 27th Annual report of the HIP on Esccbange Restrictions of Kay 197£ supports the above evidence and, subject to detailed analysis
of the relevant PITG legislation, the Commission considers that
the position is entirely satisfactory and requires no additional specific undertakings by PITG.
Finally, there is a technical question regarding the description of goods crossing P1TG frontiers. PITG does not employ the Brussels nomenclature, but a simplified structure "based on the C.T.C.I,
This could give rise to some minor problems in the implementation of the trade provisions of the Lom5 Convention and, at a later stage, in respect of Stabex. These would not be insurmountable
but could give rise ±0 aggravating administrative questions. The PITG Government has no objection of principle to adopting _ the Brussels nomenclature and it has "been suggested that the
Community*s relevant authorities and the Government of PITG
should examine together the possibility of effecting this
conversion (which would constitute a relatively oricf, simple
exercise ) in the near future . The Commission is of tnc- view that this would be the most expeditious ;-jay of dealing with this
question, which in any case does not constitute an obstacle to the accession of PITG to the Lom£ Convention.
 On the occasion of the signing of the Agreement on the accession of...., to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lom£f the signatories to the Accession Agreement agreed as follows in respect of the advance implementation
of certain provisions of the ACP-EEC Convention of Lom6, excluding those involving financial commitments.
1. The European Economic Community and shall apply autonomously from the first day of the second month following the date of signature of this Exchange of Letters certain provisions of the ACP-EEC Convention in accordance with the arrangements laid down in the Accession Agreement. These provisions areJ
Chapter 1 of Title I of tbe Convention, with the exception of those matters which are reserved for the Council of Ministers;
The Protocol on the concept of "originating products"}
The Protocols end Declaration on fishing activities , rum and bananas .
To this end, each Contracting Parties will take the necessary measures
with respect to implementation of these provisions. These provisions trill be applied until the entry into force of the Accession Agreement and in
any case not later than 31 December 1977*
2. The European Economic Community informs •••• that in the field of financial and technical cooperation it is studying measures, particularly as regards the programming of aid, to enable the corresponding provisions of the Convention to be effectively applied as soon as the Accession Agreement enters into force.
I should be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter and confirm your agreement with its content.
Council Decision on the interim measures on financial and technical cooperation in respect of certain States thatfcave signedAgreemeniis ©f AooesBion to the
The following provisions shall be adopted in order to enable the provisions of the Convention of Lome governing financial and technical cooperation to be applied to the acceding States as soon as possible after the Accession Agreements enter into force, without prejudice to the decisions which can " only be taken after parliamentary ratification of the Agreements and in ordertoensuretheuninterruptedapplicationoftheproceduresfor'• '
programing and administering financial aid. >"* '* • O
1. The Commission shall be authorized to carry out the necessary prepa­ rations for implementing the provisions of the Convention of Lom£ governing financial and technical aid for the benefit of the acceding States as soon as possible after the Accession Agreements enter into force .
2. The Commission and the Bank may, subject to the conditions laid
down in Article 17 of the Internal Financial Agreement of 1975» initiate programing missions in the States signing Accession Agreements although no binding decisions or conclusions may be reached.
3. Upon signature of its accession agreement, each of the acceding States and other recipients may submit to the Community their requests for the financing of projects or programmes.
The bodies responsible administering the aid may examine the projects orprogrammessubmittedduringtheinterimperiod. Theseprojectsand programmes may not, however, be finally adopted until after the entry into force of the Accession Agreements.
on the advance implementation of certain provisions of the
ACP/EEC Convention of Lone relating to trade in respect of certain States that have signed Agreements of Accession to
the Convention
Tke negotiations between the Coonunity and Papua New Guinea with a viewtoitsaccessiontotheACPConventionofLo&6were heldin Brussels on 29 October 1976.
. At the close of those negotiations the Community Delegation and the
Delegation of Papua New Guinea gave their full approval to the text of a draft agreement in an exchnage of letters between the Heads of Delegation* "
In its communication to the Council on negotiations with Papua New Guinea with a view to its accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of
Lom6 (Doc. )t the Commission has reconmended that when
the Accession Agreement is signed, there should be an exchange of letters with the acoeding State on the advance implementation of certainprovisionsoftheConventionofLomS* Inordertoimplement thesiid exchange of letters, the Commission forwards to the Council
a proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) on the advance implemen­ tation of certain provisions of the ACP/EEC Convention od Lome relating to trade in respect of certain States that have signed Agreements of
Accession to the Convention (Annex). «
This procedure has also been recommended in the cases of Sao Tome e Principe and Cape Verde*
 FINANCIAL RECORD for "the 19Î6 Budget
A. PART 1 : INTERVENTION APPROPRIATIONS (for existing and new projects)
(a) Revenue part: Title 1, Chapters 10, 11 and 12 (b) Expenditure part: nil
2 . TITLE OF BUDGET HEADING (a) "Own resources"
Articles 43 and 113 of the EEC Treaty
(a ) Revenues Reduction in the levies , duties and charges imposed on imports into the territory of the EEC of products exported byPapua New
Guinea, Sao Tom6 e Erincipe and Cape Verde following the application of this regulation. 7 . ~ ~~r
Measure applicable throughout the period of validity of the Regulation until the entry into force of Accession Agreement
H.?yr;rue : The reductions in revenue occasioned by the accession of Papua HeV
Guinea. Sao Tomé e Principe and. Capa Verde are diffi«ult to estimats in advanc© eince their scale will depend on the resulting fluctuations in the volume and value of the
EEXJ*s imports# Gitfen the present volume of the E3C*s imports frcra these countries and the nature <j>f the.goods concerned, the reductions
will in any event he very small. In addition) the ppecial arrangements'
which apply under Article 116 of the Acoqssion Treaty limit the existing -*• * revenue from customs duty to EEX}| Member States other than UK» Nevertheless on the b&si
of imports to the Community from Papua New Guinea in 1975t the lossi of revenue can 6 TYPE OF CONTROL "TO PR APPLTFD estimated at 2*400.000 E.U.A. annually.
Control arrangements provided fqr in the Financial Regulation of 25 April 1973.
The loss of revenue ccnnot be (juontified from th<i accounting viewpoint at the prcse.it stage.
The project will be carried out with the Commission's existing staff.
A? regards the "reduction of revenue" part, the cost of the project will bo borne by the Corrjnunity budget.
Tho Commission Decision of 28 Npveraber 1973 on now budget procedures mentions the need tp draw up a "[financial memorsxdum" for each new projectf consisting of the two p«.rts of this fin&ftcial record.
on the advance implementation of certain provisions of the ACP–EEC Convention of Lome relating to trade in respect of certain States that have signed Agreements of Accession to the Convention
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Comjiunity, and in particular Articles 43 and 113 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (ESC) No IO59/69 of 28 May 1969 laying down the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products1, as last amended "by Regulation (EEC) No 3058/75^» and in particular Article 12 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal froji the Commission,
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parlimcnt"^, «
Whereas Agreements on accession to the'AC?-ESC Convention of' Lone in accordance with Article 90 of the Convention were signed between the European Economic Conmunity and
5 x.n on ^ 5in * on ' in on
Whereas, on the occasion of the signing of those Agreements, the Comjiunity and the States concerned agreed in Exchanges of Letters to apply autonomously from ...... ........... certain provisions of the Convention relating to trade in goods in accordance with the arrangements lt-id down in the Accession Agreements; , t
•Whereas it is therefore nccessaiy to take appropriate measures to this end,
The following shall apply. from to the States listed in Annex I :
(a) Articles2,3,4,9and10oftheACP-EECConventionofLome; Protocols Nos 1, 6 and 7 to the Convention;
The Joint Declaration on fishing activities annexed to the Convention;
The Declarations "by the Community on Article 2 of the Convention (Annex XIV), on Article 3 of the Convention (Annex XV) and on
Article 10(2) of the Convention (Annex XVI) annexed to the Pinal Act
of the Convention;
(b) The provisions contained in Annex II of thisRegulation ;
(e) CouncilRegulation(EEC)No706/76of30March1976onthearrangements applicable to agricultural products and certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products originating in the African, Caribbean and Pacific States or in the overseas countries and territories ;
(d)' Council Regulation (EEC) No 157/76 of 20 January 1976 on the safeguard measures provided for in the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome ;
(e) CouncilRegulation(EEC)No1464/76 allocationandadministrationofaCommunitytariffquotafor he
products falling within subheading 22.09 C I of the Common Customs Tariff originating in the ACP States .
This Regulation shall enter into force on + shall apply in respect of each of the States listed in the Annex unti the entry into force of the Accession Agreement and in any case not later than *
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in .all Member States .
OJ No L 85, 31.3.1976, p. 2. 20J No L 18, 27.1.1976, p. 1. ^OJ No L I65 of 25.6.76, p. 5
For the Council
List of the States to which the Regulation applies:
concerning the transitional arrangements for the issue of certificates of origin
Goods which conform to the provisions of Protocol No 1 to the ACP/EEC Convention of Load on the concept of "originating" products and which,
on the date of entry into force of this Regulation are toeing transported, or are held in the Community, in a State listed in Annex I , or in an
ACP State under temporary warehouse procedure, in "bonded warehouses or
in free zones (including free ports and free entrepdts) Bay toe allowed to benefit from the provisions of the Agreement, subject to the submission to the Customs authorities of the importing country, within four months of the said date, of :
(a) a certificate EUR.l issued retrospectively toy the Customs authorities of the exporting State, or
(to) a certificate of origin issued toy the competent authorities of that State ,
and, in either case, any documents that provide supporting evidence of direct transport.
In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have
affixed their signature below this Agreement.
on the den
In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have
affixed their signature below this Agreement.
on the
on the
affixed their signature below this Agreement .
In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have affixed their signature below this Agreement.
on the den
on the negotiations between the Community and:
with a view to its accession to the ACP/SEC Convention of Lomé
on the negotiations between the Community and Papua New Guinea
with a view to its accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lome
The negotiations between the Community and Papua New Guinea
with a view to its accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lome were held in Brussels on 29 October 1976 (see detailed report Annex IV).
At the close of those negotiations, the Community Delegation and the Delegation of Papua New Guinea gave their full approval to the
text of the draft Agreement in an exchange of letters between the Heads of Delegation.
The text of the "Agreement" embodies the results of the negotiations conducted on the basis of the Council Directives of 1 October
The Commission considers that it has fulfilled its negotiating task in accordance with those directives and recommends that the Council
approves the results of the negotiations , namely :
the Agreement on the accession of Papua New Guinea to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lome (Annex i) ;
ana the draft Final Act (Annex II ),
and initiates the procedure for the signing and conclusion of this Agreement .
To this end, the Commission is forwarding herewith to the Council a recommendation for regulation concluding the Agreement (Annex III ).
The Commission considers that when the Accession Agreement is signed there should be an exchange of letters with the acceding State on the advance implementation of certain provisions of the Lome Convention. To this
end, the Commission forwards a draft exchange of letters (Annex V). A proposal for a Council Regulation relating to this question is being transmitted separately to this Council so as to facilitate consultation of the European Parliament.
4. Since Papua New Guinea is an archipelago, its main island being shared with part of Indonesia, it should automatically be included in the
list of ACP States in Article 24 of the Convention. On the other
hand, the Commission makes no recommendation for its inclusion in the list of countries covered by Article 48 (2) of the Convention.
5. The Commission has already separately communicated to the Council
a draft Internal Agreement amending the Internal Agreement on the financing and administration of Community aid signed on 11 July 1975
(COM (76) 448 Pinal of 8 September 1976) to take account of the accession of Papua New Guinea (and Sao Tome, e Principe and Cape Verde).
6. By analogy with the arrangements made in 1975 in respect of the ACP countries, the Commission also transmits a draft Decision of the Council
relating to the introduction of certain interim measures in the field of financial and technical cooperation (Annex VI ).
7. A communication has been transmitted in respect of the negotia­ tions between the Community and Sao Tome e Principe and Cape Verde
(COM (76) 450 Final of 8 September 1976).
on "the accession of Papua Hew Guinea "to the ACP–EEC Convention of Lome
Contracting Parties to the Ifceaty establishing.the European Community, (hereinafter called "the Community") signed at Rome on 25 March 1957»
whose States are hereinafter referred to as "Member States" and THE COUNCIL OP THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES,
on the one hand, and
on the other hand,
HAVING REJGARD to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community hereinafter called the "Treaty",
HAVING REG&.RD to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lom£ between the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the European Economic Community, signed at Lom<? on 28 February 1975 and hereinafter called the "Convention", and in particular Article 90 thereof,
WHEREAS Papua New Guinea has applied to accede to the Convention; WHEREAS the ACP-EEC Council of Ministers has approved the application
H&.VE DECIDED to conclude an Agreement on the accession of Papua New Guinea to the Convention, and to this end have designated as their Plenipotentiaries:
WHO, having exchanged their Pull Powers, found in good and due form, HAVE! AGREED AS FOLLOWS:
1* By this Agreement Papua New Guinea accedes to the Convention.
2* Save as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the provisions of
the Convention and also the decisions and other implementing measures
taken "by the institutions of the Convention shall apply to Papua New Guinea*
The time limits laid down by the Convention and calculated from the entry
into force of the Convention shall for the purpose of application to i Papua New Guinea be calculated from the entry into force of this Agreement. !
As regards the Community, this Agreement shall be validly concluded by a decision of the Council of the European Communities taken in conformity with the provisions of the Treaty and notified to the Parties# ItshallberatifiedbytheSignatoryStatesinconformity with their respective constitutional requirements#
The instruments of ratification and the act of notification of the conclusion of the Agreement shall be deposited, as regards Papua New
Guinea, with the Secretariat of the Council of the European Communities and, as regards the Community and the Member States, with the Secretariat oftheACPStates. TheSecretariatsshallforthwithgivenoticethereof to the signatory States and the Community.
This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date of deposit of the instruments of ratification of the Member States and of Papua New Guinea, and of the act of notification of the conclusion of the Agreement by the Community.
The Protocol annexed to this Agreement shall form an integral part thereof#
This Agreement, drawn up in two copies in the Danish, Dutch, English, French, German and Italian languages, all texts being equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives of the Secretariat of the Council of the European Communities and the Secretariat of the ACP States, which shall both transmit a certified copy to the Government of each of the Signatory States .
In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have
affixed, their signature below this Agreement .
on the den
concerning the transitional arrangements for the issue of certificates of origin
Have agreed upon the following provisions, which are annexed to the Agreement :
Goods which conform to the provisions of Protocol No 1 to the ACP-LL2C Convention of Loml on the concept of "originating" products and which,
on the date of entry into force of the Agreement, are being transported, or are* held in the Community or in an ACP State under temporary warehouse procedure, in bonded warehouses or in free zones (including free ports
and free entrep3ts) may be allowed to benefit from the provisions of the Agreement, subject to the submission to the Customs authorities of the importing country , within four months of the said date , of :
(a) a certificate HJR.1 issued retrospectively by the Customs authorities of the exporting State , or
(b) a certificate of origin issued by the competent authorities of that State ,
and , in either case , any documents that provide supporting evidence of direct transport.
The Plenipotentiaries of /
THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, of the one part , and
of the other part ,
meeting at on for
the purpose of signing an Agreement on the accession of
to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome between the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the European Economic Community, have adopted the following texts:
the Agreement on the accession of to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lomé,
and the following Protocols:
Protocol No on the transitional arrangements for the issue of certificates of origin.
The Plenipotentiaries have approved the Declarations listed below, which constitute Annexe's I to XIII to the Final Act of the ACP-EEC Convention
signed in Lome on 28 February 1975s
1. Joint Declaration on the presentation of the Convention to GATT (Annex I) 2 . Joint Declaration on Article 11 (4 ) of the Convention (Annex II )
3 . Joint Declaration on Article 59(6 ) of the Convention (Annex III )
4. Joint Declaration on Article 60 of the Convention (Annes IV)
5. Joint Declaration on representation of regional economic groupings (Annex V)
6. Joint Declaration on Article 89 of the Convention (Annex VI )
7 . Joint Déclaration on Article 4U ) of Protocol No 2 (Annex Vil ) 8. Joint Declaration on Article 20(c) of Protocol No 2 (Annex VIIl)
, 9. Joint Declaration on Article 22 of Protocol No 2 (Annex IX)
10. Joint Declaration on Article 23 of Protocol No 2 (Annex X)
11. Joint Declaration on Article 26 of Protocol No 2 (Annex XI)
12. Joint Declaration on trade between the European Economic Community and Botswana. Lesotho and Swaziland (Annex XII).
13» Joint Déclaration concerning possible requests for participation in Protocol No 3 (Annex XIII)
The Plenipotentiary of has also taken note of the Declarations listed beiow, which constitute Annexes XIV to XXIV to the Pinal Act of the ACP-EEC Convention signed in Lome on 28 February 1975s
1. Declaration by the Community on Article 2 of the Convention (Annex XIV)
2. Declaration by the Community on Article 3 of the Convention (Annex XV)
3. Declaration by the Community on Article 10(2) of the Convention (Annex XVI)
4. Declaration by the Community on the unit of account referred to in Article 42 of the Convention (Annex XVII)
5. Declaration by the Community on Article 3 of Protocol No 2 (Annex XVIII)
6. Declaration by the Community on Article 4(3) of Protocol No 2 (Annex XIX)
7. Declaration by the Community on any additional financing by the European Investment Bank during the implementation of the Convention (Annex XX)
8. Declaration by the Community concerning sugar originating in Belize, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla and Surinam (Annex XXI)
9. Declaration by the Community on Article 10 of Protocol No 3 (Annex XXIl)
10. Declaration by the representative of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the definition of German nationals
11. Declaration by the representative of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany concerning the application to Berlin of the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome (Annex XXIV)
£ The Plenipotentiaries have also adopted the text of the following Declaration annexed to this Final Act:
Furthermore, the Plenipotentiary of has taken note of the following Declaration annexed to this Final Act: 7
In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have affixed their signatures below this Final Act.
concluding the Agreement
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 238 thereof,
Having regard to the recommendation from the Commission, Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament*",
Whereas an Agreement on the accession of
to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome^ between the African, Caribbean and Pacific States and the European Economic Community, hereinafter called the "Convention", and a Pinal Act were signed in ;
Whereas it should be ensured that acts of the Institutions of the Community - both those currently in force and those adopted subsequently - which use the expression "the ACP States" apply to .
The Agreement on the accession of
the Final Act and the Declarations annexed thereto, are hereby concluded, approved and confirmed on behalf of the European Economic Community.
The texts of the Agreement and the Final Act are annexed to this Regulation.
to the Convention, and
The President of the Council is hereby authorized, as regards the Community, to deposit the act of notification of the conclusion of the Agreement , in accordance with Article of the Agreement .
Save where otherwise provided, any mention of the "ACP States" in the
acts of the Institutions of the Community shall also apply to ■This shall apply from the entry into force of the Agreement.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Por the Council The President
with a view to their accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lom5
PNG officially applied for membership of the Lome Convention on 3December1975* InitscommunicationtotheCouncilof25February 1976 (COM (76) 66 Pinal) the Commission suggested that the Community should react by adopting a favourable position of principle
and that the Commission should exchange information with the PNG authorities .
Following the formal approval of the PNG request by the ACP/EEC Council at its first meeting in Brussels on 14 - 15 July 1976, and fnrthe
light of exploratory talks with PNG officials, the Commission made recommendation to the Council for a Decision to open negotiations
(COM(76)448Final), ThisCommunicationalsoincludedadraft Internal Agreement amending the Internal Agreement on the financing and administration of Community aid signed on 11 July 1975
(without figures).
At its meeting of 4-5 October 1976the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with PNG (Council Document s/1490/76)
The negotiations took place on 29 October and were conducted by the Commission on behalf of the Community with representatives of theMemberStatespresentasobservers. Thenegotiationswere preceded by a coordination meeting between the Commission and the Member States with the Council occupying the Chair.
In accordance with the directives laid down by the Council, the negotiations covered all the Titles of the Convention and Title II
in particular, with the exception, however, of Article 48(2) (Title IV) and the amount of financial aid to be earmarked. At the close of
these negotiations, the Community Delegation and the Delegation of Papua New Guinea respectively recorded their agreement on a draftAgreement inanexchangeoflettersbetweentheHeadsof Delegation#
The PNG representative acknowledged the obligations of the Lome Convention and gave his Government's assurance of their intention toobservethem. Headditionallyraisedfourotherquestions.
- The PNG Government sought the anticipated application of certain trade measures (Title I, Chapter I of the LoiM' Convention, The Protocol No.l of the Lom5 Convention on origin, and the Joint Declaration on Fishing activities annexed to the Convention).
A proposal for an exchange of letters on the advance imple­ mentation of certain provisions of the Convention covering
thesecpiestioiisisattachedatAnnexV. Atthesametime,a separate proposal for a Council Regulation on this advance implementation is being submitted to the Council.
– ThePNGrepresentativealsosoughtthattheCommissionshouldreport his Government's desire for inclusion in the list of countries
inArticle48(2)oftheLom5Convention~(Leastdeveloped). The representative of FfIG stated that the UN statistics for GNP per capita US 477) were falsified because of the large sector of
the economy subsidised by Australian aid, particularly in respect ofsalaries,("ThetruefigurewasnearerUS$277)» Thelevelof industrialisationinPNGwasextremelylow. 96foofthelandeconomy wassubsistencefarming. Theenvironmentwasrugged,the
topography hindered communications and the population unevenly distributed .
The Community representative took note of these desiderata and, without making any commitment, undertook to transmit these to the Council ofjttie European Comouniti6S_in h^s report.
The considerations set out "by the PNG Delegation serve to confirm the preliminary views of the Commission that the development level of PNG is not accurately reflected "by theofficialfiguresofPNGpercapita. Nevertheless, although much of what the PNG representative outlined will "be examined in depth on the "basis of documentary evidence, the Commission does not believe that it can go so far as to support the case for inclusion of PNG in Article 48(2). Even on the basis of the figures put.forward by the .
PNG Delegation, this would not be justified.
– ThePNGGovernmentwaslikelytonegotiateafreetradeagreement inthenearfuturewithAustralia. Thisagreementwouldbe entirely compatible with the provisions of the Lom5 Convention and no preferences would be extended to Australia.
When pressed for assurances on this point, the PNG Delegation emphasised that the agreement with Australia would be non- preferential and would be negotiated with the Lom£ Convention fullyinmind. Copiesoftheagreementwouldbemadeavailable for scrutiny at the earliest possible occasion.
– Finally,PNGwhichwasintheprocessoffinalisingitsdevelopment plan would keep the Community fully informed of its objectives
and priorities in the field of EDP programming.
– InpreliminarydiscussionamongtheMemberStatesparticular reference was made by one Delegation to problems arising from possiblespecialarrangementsregardingthe movementof capital and rights of establishment subsisting between PNG and
Australia. Followinganexploratoryexchangeonthesequestions
the following infoma*tion has "been made availaole:
Prior to January 1976 Papua Hew Guinea was part of the Australian Monetary System, hence no exchange control existedbetweenFiTGandAustralia, whereastherewere
exchange control regulations governing movement of foreign exchange between PUG and other foreign countries.
I„ jaimarv- 1976 P1TG amended its exchange regulations, and exchange arrangements with Australia were brought into line withthoseapplyingtoothercountries. Allforeignpayments
requiretheapprovaloftheBankofPapuaHewGuinea. ITo restrictions are placed on current payments or capital
repaymentsduetooverseasresidents. Restrictionsare
placed on investment overseas by PIIG residents and cy PIlG
onanondiscriminatorybasis. TemporaryresidentsinPIIG, including TZZ nationals, arc free to remit their earnings to anv overseas destination.
only discriminatory aspect of WO*. «chffle. reflations rolated to the lan on trade with Rhodesia, pursuant to the HIT Hecclutioa on this natter.
With respect to the establishment of individuals, Papua Hew Guinea does not maintain any practices which discriminate between Foreignnationals. TheBnployment(trainingandregulation)
Act 1971 provides for the gasettal of prohibited and restricted
categoriesofemployment. OnlyPUGnationalsmaybeemployedin prohibitedcategoriesofemployment. Non-nationalsmaybe
employedinrestrictedcategoriesofwork, providedthatthe trainingofnationalsisundertaken, eitherintheformof on-the-jobtrainingorapprenticeshiptraining. Norlcpermits arerequiredbyallnon-nationals. Inissuingworkpermits,
favoured treatment is not given to nationals of any country, including Australia.
In respect of the establishment of companies, no preferences are •ivenioAustralianfirms. Certainactivitiesarerestrictedto
nationalfirmsonly. Decisionsontheestablishmentof foreign companies in Papua New Guinea are taken on the
basis of commercial considerations, not on the basis of nationalit5r of the investor.
There are no aspects of PNG«s legislation that discriminate against nationals or firms of the Member States of the EEC, Furthermore, there are no informal arrangements operated in favour of Australia or any other foreign country.
Against this background the Government of PNG has informed the Commission that it sees no difficulty in accepting Title V of the Lom£ Convention fully and without qualification.
The 27th Annual report of the IMF on Exchange Restrictions of May 1976 supports the above evidence and, subject to detailed analysis
of the relevant PNG legislation, the .Commission considers that
the position is entirely satisfactory and requires no additional specific undertakings by PNG.
Finally, there is a technical question regarding the description of goodscrossingPNGfrontiers. PNGdoesnotemploytheBrussels nomenclature, but a simplified structure based on the C.T.C.I.
This could give rise to some minor problems in the implementation of the trade provisions of the Lom£ Convention and, at a later stage,inrespectofStabex. Thesewouldnotbeinsurmountable
but could give rise to aggravating administrative questions.
The PNG Government has no objection of principle to adopting the Brussels nomenclature and it has been suggested that the Community's relevant authorities and the Government of PNG should examine together the possibility of effecting this conversion (which would constitute a relatively brief, simple exercise)inthenearfuture. TheCommissionisoftheview that this would be the most expeditious way of dealing with this question, which in any case does not constitute an
obstacle to the accession of FtTG to the Lom£ Convention.
On the occasion of the signing of the Agreement on the accession of
to the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome, the signatories to the Accession Agreement agreed as follows in respect of the advance implementation
of certain provisions of the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome, excluding those involving financial commitments.
1. The European Economic Community and shall apply autonomously from the first day of the second month following the date of signature of this Exchange of Letters certain provisions of the ACP-EEC Convention in accordance with the arrangements laid down in the Accession Agreement. These provisions are :
Chapter 1 of Title I of the Convention, with the exception of those matters which are reserved for the Council of Ministers ;
The Protocol on the concept of "originating products";
The Protocols and Declaration on fishing activities , rum and bananas .
To this end, each Contracting Parties will take the necessary measures
with respect to implementation of these provisions. These provisions will be applied until the entry into force of the Accession Agreement and in
.any case not later than 31 December 1977•
2. The European Economic Community informs .... that in the field of financial and technical cooperation it is studying measures, particularly as regards the programming of aid, to enable the corresponding provisions of the Convention to be effectively applied as soon as the Accession Agreement enters into force.
I should be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter and confirm your agreement with its content.
Council Decision on the interim measures on financial and technical cooperation in respect of certain States that have signed Agreements of Accession to the
Convention of Lome
The following provisions shall he adopted in order to enable the provisions of the Convention of Lome governing financial and technical cooperation to he applied to the acceding States as soon as possible after the Accession Agreements enter into force, without prejudice to the decisions which can only he taken after parliamentary ratification of the Agreements and in order to ensure the uninterrupted application of the procedures for programming and administering financial aid.
1. The Commission shall he authorized to carry out the necessary prepa­ rations for implementing the provisions of the Convention of Lome governing financial and technical aid for the benefit of the acceding States as soon as possible after the Accession Agreements enter into force .
2. The Commission and the Bank may, subject to the conditions laid
down in Article 17 of the Internal Financial Agreement of 1975» initiate programming missions in the States signing Accession Agreements although no binding decisions or conclusions may be reached.
3. Upon signature of its accession agreement, each of the acceding
States and. other recipients may submit to the Community their
requests for the financing of projects or programmes.
The bodies responsible administering the aid may examine the projects or programmes submitted during the interim period. These projects and programmes may not, however, be finally adopted until after the entry into force of the Accession Agreements.
 FINANCIAL RECORD for the 1976 Budget
PART 1 : INTERVENTION APPROPRIATIONS (for existing and. new projects)
(a) Revenue part: Title 1, Chapters 10, 11 and 12 (b) Expenditure part: nil
TITLE OF BUDGET HEADING "Own resources"
Article 238 of the EEC Treaty
Revenue; Reduction in the levies, duties and charges imposed on
imports into the territory of the EEC of products exported
"by Papua Uew Guinea following the accession of this country
to the Lome Convention and 'in accordance with the provisions of the Convention , in particular those of Titles I , II and III , and the provisions of the Protocols and Agreements annexed thereto.
(b) Expenditure: The accession to the Lome Convention of the above States has no effect on the Community budget, since the increase in the EDF's resources necessitated by the accession of these countries will have to be covered by an additional financial contribution from the Member States .
Measure applicable throughout the period of validity of the Lome Convention .
Reverue : The reductions in revenue cccasionedby the accession of Papua-Jew. Guinea\are difficult to estimatein advance since their scale will depend on the resulting fluctuations in the volume and value of the
EEC's imports# f'Gi-fren the present volume of the EEC's imports from v
tkia country .'and the nature of the goods -concerned, the reductions - .
will in any event be very small,] In addition, the special...arrangements'
wfiich apply under Article 116 of the Accession Treaty limit the existing
revenue from customs duty to EEC Member States other thanJDK'# Nevertheless, on the basis of imports to the Conmunity from Papua New Guinea in 1975, the loss of revenue
Control arrangements provided for in the Financial Regulation of 25 April 1973.
The loss of revenue cannot be quantified from the accounting viewpoint at the prese.it stage.
The project will be carried out with the Commissions existing staff.
As regards the "reduction of revenue" part, the cost of the project will be borne by the Corununity budget.
As regards the "expenditure" part, the project will have no effect on
the Community budget, but will be financed from the new EDF appropriation.
iho Commission Decision of 28 November 1973 on new budget procedures mentions the need to draw up a "financial memorandum" for each new project, consisting of the two parts of this financial record.
In witness whereof, the undersigned Plenipotentiaries have
affixed their signature below this Agreement.
on the den
5. ?'IT: .r'JAlÂ.Ù AUoVriRICUïTGiflT ( in R3)
Proposal for a comicIL REGULATION (EEC)
on "the advance implementation of certain provisions ,
of the ACP-EEC Convention of Lomé relating to trade
in respect of certain States that have signed Agreements
of Accession to the Convention
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
1. The negotiations between the Community and. Papua New Guinea with a view to its accession to the ACP Convention of Lome were held in
Brussels on 29 October 197^.
At the close of those negotiations the Community Delegation and the Delegation of Papua New Guinea gave their full approval to the text of a draft agreement in an exchnage of letters between the Heads of Delegation.
2. In its communication to the Council on negotiations with Papua New Guinea with a view to its accession to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lome (Doc. ), the Commission has recommended that when the Accession Agreement is signed, there should be an exchange of
letters with the acceding State on the advance implementation of certain provisions of the Convention of Lome. In order to implement the said exchange of letters , the Commission forwards to the Council
a proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) on the advance implemen­ tation of certain provisions of the ACP/EEC Convention od Lome relating to trade in respect of certain States that have signed Agreements of Accession to the Convention (Annex).
This procedure has also been recommended in the cases of Sao Tome e Principe and Cape Verde.
on the advar.cn iirrpler,-entation of certain provisions of -the /.CP-ESC ..^Convention of Lone relating to trade in reelect of certain States
that have' signed Agreements of Accession to the Convention
II?'vi ng regard , to .the . Treaty . establishing the European Economic Com.Tr.mity , and, in jDar^'icular Articles '43' and. 113 thereof ,
Having regard".to "Council .Regulation (EEC) No 1059/69 of 28 May 1969 laying down the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting froji the proccr.-.-.ing of agricultural products1, as last amended by Regulation (EEC)
•^O,..i0 55»•<and in. particular. Article 12 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal ' fro.n the Co.aaission .
having, regard to the Opinion of the Eurcncrn ParlicT.ent ,
Whereas Agreements on accession to the AC?–EEC Convention of Lome in accordance with Article 90 of the Convention were signed between the
•vhereas , on the occasion of the signing of those Agreements , the Com.ir.mity
and the States concerned agreed in Exchanges of Letters to apply
..ja^tonosngusly .from certain provisions of the Convention relating to trade in goods in accordance with the arrangements laid down
in the Accession Agreements;
Whereas it is therefore necessary to tsie appropriate measures to this end,
The following shall apply from to the States listed in Annex I ;
(a) Articles2,3,4»9and10oftheACP-EECConventionofLope; Protocols Nos 1, 6 and 7 to the Convention; . '
The Joint Declaration on fishing activities annexed to the Convention}
The Declarations "by the Community on Article 2 of the Convention (Annex XIV), on Article 3 of the Convention (Annex XV) ftnd on
Article 10(2) of the Convention (Annex XVI) annexed to the Final Act
of the Convention;
(b) The provisions contained in Annex II of thisRegulation ;
(o) CouncilRegulation(EEC)No706/76of30March1976onthearrangements applicable to agricultural products and certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products originating in the African, Caribbean and Pacific States or in the overseas countries and territories-1;
(d) CouncilRegulation(EEC)NO157/76of20January1976onthesafeguard measures provided for in the ACP-EEC Convention of Lome^;
(e) CouncilRegulation(EEC)NO1464/76of.21.June^Zntheopening, allocation and administration of a Community tariff quota for the
produpts falling within subheading 22.09 C I of the Common Customs Tariff originating in the ACP States^.
This Regulation shall enter into force on • It shall apply in respect of each of the States listed in the Annex until
the entry into force of the Accession Agreement and in any case not later than
This Regulation shall be "binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at , For the Council
OJ No L 85, 31.3.1976, p. 2. 20J No L 18, 27.1.1976, p. 1. 30J No L I65 of 25.6.76. p. 5
 List of the States to which the Regulation applies
concerning the transitional arrangements for the issue of certificates of origin
Goods which conform to the provisions of Protocol No 1 to the ACP/EEC Convention of Lome on the concept of "originating" products and which,
on the date of entry into force of this Regulation are "being transported, or are held in the Community, in a State listed in Anne:* I , or in an
ACP State under temporary warehouse procedure, in "bonded warehouses or
in free zones (including free ports and free entrepSts) may.be allowed to "benefit from the provisions of the Agreement, subject to the submission to the Customs authorities of the importing country, y/ithin four months of the said date , of :
a certificate EUR.1 issued retrospectively by the Customs authorities of the exporting State , or
a certificate of origin issued by the competent authorities of that State ,
and, in either case, any documents that provide supporting evidence of direct transport.
 FINANCIAL RECORD for the 1976 Budget
PART 1 : INTERVENTION APPROPRIATIONS (for existing and. new projects)
(a) Revenue. part: Title 1, Chapters 10, 11 and. 12 (b) Expenditure. part: nil
Articles 43 and. 113 of the EEC Treaty
(a) Revenue: Reduction in the levies, duties and charges imposed on imports into the territory of thfe EEC of' products exported bypapua New
Guinea, Sao -Tojne e Principe and Cape Verde following the application of this regulation.
Measure applicable throughout the period of validity of the Regulation until the entry into force of Accession Agreement
Control arrangements provided fqr in the Financial Regulation of 25 April 1973.
R-vrr"r: Theroductirn~ in r^von'in coc.ir.ionfid by the accorcior. ofPapua New
Guinea, Sao Tome e Principe and Cape Verde are difficult to estimate in advance sin^e
their s:cale will depend on the resulting fluctuations in the volume and value of the
EEC'simports. GiventhepreceptvolumeoftheEEC'simportsfrom
these countries and the nature qf the-goods concerned, the reductions
whichapplytenderArticle116oftheAccessionEreatylimittheexisting . •'
revenuefromcustomsdutytoEEC]!MemberStatesotherthanUK.Nevertheles, onthebasis of imports to the Community from Papua New Guinea in 1975» "the loss of revenue can be
rryn^ r?' '"'ON^ROL TO BE APPi.TTD estimated at 2»400»000 E.U,A. annually.
The Iocs of revenue cannot be quantified from th<n accounting viewpoint at the prene.it stage.
The project will be carried out with the Commission's existing staff.
As regards the "reduction of revenue" part, the cost of the project will bo borne by the Corrjnunity budget.
The Corunisnion Decision of 28 November 1973 on new budget procedures mentions the need to draw up a ";financial memorandum" for each new project, consisting of tho two parts of this fincjicial record.
