The Commission in its social action programme proposed to take measures that wbuld extend social protection progressively, in particular within the framework of social security systems, to those groups of persons who are not covered "by the existing systems or who are inadequately covered.
The Council adopted this proposal and included it in its Resolution of 21 January 1974 relating to a social action programme.
The purpose of the present draft Recommendation, based on article 155 of the Treaty setting up the European Economic Community, is to fulfill this objective .
The Commission is requested :
to decide to consult the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee about this draft recommendation.
concerning the progressive extension of social protection to categories of persons not covered "by existing schemes or inadequately protected
1* Despite past progress there still remain gaps and inadequacies in social protection in the Community, differing from one country to another. Among the groups not yet covered or only partially covered are first of all certain groups outside the active population(l) (the handicapped, women not in gainful
employment, students or young people seeking their first employment, prisoners, persons in institutional care, etc***)* There are also some self–employed persons (in particular shopkeepers and self-employed professionals) and finally, to a lesser extent, certain marginal categories of wage and salary earners (home wor­ kers, temporaries, domestic servants, etc.**)*
These deficiencies led the Commission to propose in its Social Action Programme that social protection should "be extended. The Council accepted this proposal when it adopted its Resolution of the 21st January 1974 and included
as one of its priorities the extension of social protection, in particular
within the framework of social security, to those categories of people not covered "by the present, systems or inadequately covered.
Though, it is clearly desirable to allow these diverse groups the benefit of the social protection arrangements, it must yet he recognised that
such action can only be realised in stages. Moreover by allowing the Member
States a degree of discretion in the implementation of such reforms it will be _ **■* *
possible to reconcile the demand for so&ial progress with economic and^financial constraints .
It is with these principles in mind that the Commission, noting that the objective to be achieved falls within the ambit of articles 2, 117 and 118 of the Treaty instituting the European Economic Community, recommends a number of measures designed to contribute towards its realisation.
2% The first priority should be the extension to the entire working population of the protection which most of the active population is already accorded as regards health care , old age , invalidity and family benefits .
Since almost the entire active population is already covered in these respects , the exclusion of certain groups - often socially disadvantaged - is more and more difficult to justify.
This points to an extension of such protection to all the active population according to the conditions under which it is provided by national legislation. Coverage must be maintained during periods when economic activity
is interrupted for reasons outside the individuals* control. j^
(1) 'The active population comprises all those persons who were employed as well
as those out of work, i.e. persons who would have wished to work if they had had the opportunity.
 3» It is desirable to assure the same protection (except as concerns invalidity, given the absence of gainful employment) to all persons without an economic activity who, for this reason, often find themselves without the benefit of social protection.
The objective is not to guarantee to the non-active population precise­ ly the same benefits as accorded to those with an economic aotivity - which would
often be technically impossible in the absence of a cash income - but to provide at least analogous benefits.
This objective can only be achieved in stages. It is only by stages
that the present social security systems of the Member States have been developed, first from one to another group of wage earners and then to the self-employed. Currently coverage is being extended to the inactive population in every Member State, but the extent of this process varies from one country to another.
In the first phase, efforts should be concentrated on two priority groups : on the one hand, for self-evident social reasons, the victims of con­ genital handicaps,, physical or mental^^and on the other hand by reason of their numerical importance in the population , those , generally women, who are engaged iji unpaid household duties.
4. The entire population will thus be brought progressively
within the scope of social protection as regards health care, old age and family benefits. Bat there remains another need to be considered : the lack of the
basic means of subsistence for certain social groups who, for reasons beyond their control, find it impossible to exercise a gainful activity. In this regard the following categories merit particular attention: victims of physical or mental congenital handicap as well as certain social groups who are not covered against the effects of fluctuations in the economy : young people seeking employment and self-employed persons obliged to quit their profession or business who have insufficient resources to cover the period of inactivity.
( 1 ) Those in active employment who become handicapped are already covered See point 2.
 I"fc would seem jus*t "to guarantee "these groups income and services t\
analogous with these provided under the social security system in cases of inva­ lidity or unemployment.
5« The social security schemes constitute the appropriate framework for the measures to he taken to obtain these different objectives# The extension of social protection will be achieved normally by affiliation - obligatory or vo­
luntary - to these schemes. However it cannot be excluded that, in certain cases, the social assistance system might . constitute the only means of covering without
undue delay new categories of people. Recourse to this system is thus allowed as a supplementary possibility.
The right to social- benefits implies, for those covered by this right, respect for certain obligations , notably the payment of contributions . Equal rights indeed entails equal- duties-* However, it is desirable to avoid contribution conditions which have the effect of denying protection to certain groups who cannot satisfy them.- A measure of financial aid -should be provided in favour of the most
disadvantaged categories to enable them to meet their contribution charges.
6. IIT proposing these objectives the Commission does not claim to settle in its entirety the problem of the extension of social protection. There remain other risks to cover and social groups other than these listed here. But the Commission considers that , in a first phase ending at the end of 1980 , the developments' which
it proposes will have the effect of closing,. at the Community level, important gaps in the system of social protection.
For the reasons expressed above and by virtue of the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 155 thereof , the Commission ,- having consulted with the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee , recommends to the Member States , without prejudice
ployment or self-employment is involuntarily interrupted. To this end :
1. To extend to all such categories of persons, as well as to members of their family, in the event of sickness or maternity the benefit of medical care, including at the least the co-st of medical and dental treatment, pharmaceutical products and hospital care.
2. To extend to all such categories of persons, in the event of old age or permanent and total invalidity , whatever the origin of this invalidity , the right to a pension and the provision of medical care.
3. To extend to all such categories of persons in event that they have dependant children, the advantage of the family benefits provided according to the family policy of the nation concerned.
to national arrangements which go beyond the oobjectives hereby recommended, to put into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to attain the following objectives :
a) To provide cover against the contingencies of sickness, old age and invalidity and give the advantage of family benefits to all categories of persons who are engaged in gainful employment or self-employment, including periods when such em­
b) To provide for the progressive extension, according to the conditions laid down in point a), of coverage against the contingencies of sickness and old age and the advantage of family benefits to those catiegories of persons who do not exercise a gainful activity, either employed or self-employed.
To this end :
1. To guarantee to such persons a protection analogous to that which is provided for the benefit of persons exercising a gainful activity.
2. To assure this protection in the first phase to the following groups : - victims of a congenital handicap, "physical or mental;
- persons who are engaged principally in unpaid household duties.
c) To guarantee to those categories of persons who are unable to exercise a gainful activity, income and services analogous to that provided by social security schemes in the event of invalidity or unemployment.
For this purpose to institute measures in favour of the following groups :
- victims of congenital handicap , physical or mental ;
- young people in search of employment and not eligible for unemployment benefits;
_ - persons who, having been self-employed, are obliged to abandon their occupation
fer economic reasons and who, during the period of inactivity, lack adequate income .
Ib achieve these objectives the Commission recommends to the Member States that the following points should be taken into account s
1. where the extension of social protection is achieved by affiliation, compulsory or voluntary, to the existing social security scheme(s), a measure of financial assistance should be provided for in favour of the more disadvantaged groups
to allow them to meet their contribution obligations;
2. where the national system provides, alongside the social security scheme,
a social assistance system, recourse to this system shall be admitted, as
a supplementary measure so long as the conditions for the provision of as­ sistance, in particular as concerns the level of allowable resources, do not have the effect of denying help to those it is intended to protect.
Finally, the Commission recommends to the Member States that they
achieve these objectives before 31 December 1980 as regards the categories of
persons listed in points a), b) and c).
In this respect the Commission stipulates that the extension of social protection should not occasion the creation of discriminatory provisions as between men and women.
■Ehe Commission considers it desirable to be informed every 2 years on the measures adopted for the application of the present recommendation. It suggests that there should be a regular series of consultations on further measures to be put into effect.
concerning the progressive extension of social protection to categories
of persons not covered by existing schemes or inadequately protected
concerning the progressive extension of social protection to categories of persons not covered by existing schemes or inadequately protected
1. Despite past progress there still remain gaps and inadequacies in social protection in the Community, differing from one country to another. Among the groups not yet covered or only partially covered are first of all certain groups outside the active population(l) (the handicapped, women not in gainful
employment, students or young people seeking their first employment, prisoners, persons in institutional care, etc...). There are also some self–employed persons (in particular shopkeepers and self-employed professionals) and finally, to a lesser extent, certain marginal categories of wage and salary earners (home wor­ kers, temporaries, domestic servants, etc...).
These deficiencies led the Commission to propose in its Social Action Programme that social protection should be extended. The Council accepted this proposal when it adopted its Resolution of the 21st January 1974 and included
as one of its priorities the extension of social protection, in particular
within the framework of social security, to those categories of people not covered ■fay the present systems or inadequately covered.
Though it is clearly desirable to allow these diverse groups the benefit of the social protection arrangements, it must yet be recognised that
such action can only be realised in stages. Moreover by allowing the Member States a degree of discretion in the implementation of such reforms it will be possible to reconcile the demand for so&ial progress with economic and-financial constraints .
It is with these principles in mind that the Commission, noting that the objective to bo achieved falls within the ambit of articles 2, 117 and 118 of the Treaty instituting the European Economic Community, recommends a number of measures designed to contribute towards its realisation.
2» The first priority should be the extension to the entire working population of the protection which most of the active population is already accorded as regards health care, old age, invalidity and family benefits.
Since almost the entire active population is already covered in these respects , the exclusion of certain groups - often socially disadvantaged - is more and more difficult to justify.
This points to an extension of such protection to all the active population according to the conditions under which it is provided by national legislation. Coverage must bs maintained during periods when economic activity
is interrupted for reasons outside the individuals' control. j^
(1) The active population comprises all those persons who were employed as well
as thoso out of work, i.e. persons who would have wished to work if they had had the opportunity.
*s desirr jle to assure the same protection (except as concerns invalidity, ;?~ven the a^^tsnce of gainful employment) to all persons without an
economic ac+ivity who, for this reason, often find themselves without the benefit of social protection.
The objective is not to guarantee to the non–active population precise­ ly the same benefits as accorded to those with an economic activity – which would
often be technically impossible in the absence of a cash income – but to provide at least analogous benefits.
This objective can only be achieved in stages. It is only by stages that the present social security systems of the Member States have been developed, first from one to another group of wage earners and then to the self-employed. Currently coverage is being extended to the inactive population in every Member State, but the extent of this process varies from one country to another.
In the first phase, efforts should be concentrated on two priority groups : on the one hand, for self–evident social reasons, the victims of con­ genital handicaps, physical or mental^and on the other hand by reason of their
numerical importance in the population, those, generally women, who are engaged in unpaid household duties.
4* The entire population will thus be brought progressively
within the scope of social protection as regards health care , old age and family benefits. But there remains another need to be considered : the lack of the
basic means of subsistence for certain social groups who , for reasons beyond their control, find it impossible to exercise a gainful activity. In this regard the following categories merit particular attention: victims of physical
covered against the effects of fluctuations in the economy : young people sebking employment and self-employed persons obliged to quit their profession or business who have insufficient resources to cover the period of inactivity.
(1) Those in active employment who become handicapped are already covered. See point 2.
ormentalcongenitalhandicapaswellascertainsocialgroupswhoarenot / /
It would seem just to guarantee these groups income and services
analogous with "these provided under the social security system in cases of inva­ lidity or unemployment.
5» The social security schemes constitute the appropriate framework for the measures to be taken to obtain these different objectives. The extension of social protection will be achieved normally by affiliation - obligatory or vo­ luntary - to these schemes. However it cannot be excluded that, in certain cases, the social assistance system might constitute the only means of covering without
undue delay new categories of people. Recourse to this system is thus allowed as a supplementary possibility.
The right to social benefits implies, for those covered by this right, respect for certain obligations , notably the payment of contributions . Equal rights indeed entails equal- duties* However, it is desirable to avoid contribution conditions which have the effect of denying protection to certain groups who cannot satisfy thenu A measure of financial aid -should be provided in favour of the most disadvantaged categories to enable them to meet their contribution charges.
6. Irr proposing these objectives the Commission does not claim to settle in its entirety the problem of the extension of social protection. There remain other risks to cover and social groups other than these listed here. But the Commission considers that, in a first phase ending at the end of 1980, the developments which
it proposes will have the effect of closing,. at the Community level, important gaps in the system of social protection.
For the reasons expressed above and by virtue of the provisions of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 155
thereof, the Commission, having consulted with the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee , recommends to the Member States , without prejudice
to national arrangements whxch go "beyond the objectives hereby recommended, to put
into force the l^.ws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to attain the following objectives :
a) To provide cover against the contingencies of sickness, old age and invalidity and give the advantage of family benefits to all categories of persons who are engaged in gainful employment or self-employment, including periods when such em­
ployment or self-employment is involuntarily interrupted. To this end :
1. To extend to all such categories of persons, as well as to members of their family, in the event of sickness or maternity the benefit of medical care,
including at the least the cost of medical and dental treatment, pharmaceutical products and hospital care.
2. To extend to all such categories of persons, in the event of old age or permanent and total invalidity, whatever the origin of this invalidity, the right to a pension and the provision of medical care.
3-. To extend to all such categories of persons in event that they have dependant children, the advantage of the family benefits provided according to the family policy of the nation concerned.
b) To provide for the progressive extension, according to the conditions laid down in point a), of coverage against the contingencies of sickness and old age and the advantage of family benefits to those categories of persons who do not exercise a gainful activity, either employed or self-employed.
To this end :
1. To guarantee to such persons a protection analogous to that which is provided for the benefit of persons exercising a gainful activity.
2. To assure this protection in the first phase to the following groups : - victims of a congenital handicap, 'physical or mental;
- persons who are engaged principally in unpaid household duties.
c) To guarantee to those categories of persons who are unable to exercise a gainful activity, income and services analogous to that provided by social security schemes in the event of invalidity or unemployment.
For this purpose to institute measures in favour of the following groups :
- victims of congenital handicap, physical or mental;
- young people in search of employment and not eligible for unemployment benefits;
- persons who, having been self-employed, are obliged to abandon their occupation
for economic reasons and who, during the period of inactivity, lack adequate income .
To achieve these objectives the Commission recommends to the Member States that the following points should be taken into account :
1. where the extension of social protection is achieved by affiliation, compulsory or voluntary, to the existing social security scheme(s), a measure of financial assistance should be provided for in favour of the more disadvantaged groups
to allot? them to meet their contribution obligations;
2. where the national system provides , alongside the social security scheme ,
a social assistance system, recourse to this system shall be admitted, as
a supplementary measure so long as the conditions for the provision of as­ sistance, in particular as concerns the level of allowable resources, do not have the effect of denying help to those it is intended to protect.
Finally, the Commission recommends to the Member States that they achieve these objectives before 31 December 1980 as regards the categories of persons listed in points a), b) and c).
In this respect the Commission stipulates that the extension of social protection should not occasion the creation of discriminatory provisions as between men and women.
The Coranission considers it desirable to be informed every 2 years on the measures adopted for the application of the present recommendation. It suggests that there should be a regular series of consultations on further measures to be put into effect.
