Members of the Commission Mr Meyer
concerning international negotiations on a Common Fund for commodities
( Communication from Messrs. Cheysson , Haferkamp and Davignon )
- This matter is on the agenda for the 439th meeting of the Commission, on 20 July 1977; \
- Mr Cheysson has not had time to read the final version of the documen-Laidso reserves the right to submit amendments if necessary.
 Memo from the General Secretariat
D.G. Economic and Financial Affairs
- for opinion Legal Service
INTERNAL MARKET and INDUSTRIAL AFFAIRS
( not provided ; reminder sent )
VIII/ 76P/ 77-S 12th July , 1977
The Community should define the way in which the commitment taken in Paris on the Common Fund should now be expressed.
The Community should approach the negotiations on the basis of clear orientations concerning relations between the Common Fund and individual -
consumer/producer - commodity organisations, and on the Fund's main objectives and modalities.
Analysis of commodity agreements, negotiations and discussions to date suggests that a diversity of solutions may be needed; in some cases stocking systems are under discussion ; different measures , some requiring finance , may well prove more appropriate in othar cases .
Against this background, the Commission proposes t-hat the Common Fund should take the form of a clearing account between individual commodity organisations, supported by international credit as necessary to ensure its good functioning. At the appropriate moment the Negotiating Conference will need to determine whether, and if so how, a Common Fund might have a role in the financing of measures other than buffer stocks.
Appropriate -'flecirion–maici-rrg" procedures should be established for the resolution of issues of major importance in the Fund.
In good time the President of the Council of Ministers should write to the President of the Negotiating Conference drawing attention to the special position of the Community .
concerning international negotiations on a Common Fund for commodities
(Communication from Messrs. Cheysson. Haferkamp and Davignon)
1* The Trade and Development Board (TDB) of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) has decided that the Negotiating Conference on the Conmfon Fund should be reconvened between 7th November and 2nd December, 1977* FollowingthefirstpartoftheNegotiatingConference(7thMarch–
3rd April) and the decision taken by the Community in Rome on 25th March, 1977 that "there should be commodity price stabilisation agreements where appropriate and that there should be a Common Fund", the Conference on International Economic Co-operation (CIEC) reached the following agreement:
"... that a Common Fund should be established as a new entity to serve as a key instrument in attaining the agreed objectives of the Integrated Programme for Commodities as embodied in UNCTAD Resolution93(lV). Theyalsoagreedthatitsspecificpurposes and objectives, as well as its other constituent elements, will continue to be negotiated in UNCTAD. The participating countries in the CIEC pledge themselves to secure a successful conclusion at the forthcoming resumed session of the UNITED Nations Negotiating Conference on a Common Fund scheduled for November 1977 at plenipotentiary level."
The Community will thus enter the second rourfd. of■ the negotiations on the basis of a clearly adopted political commitment which must now be implemented;
it must be able to show sufficient progress in its thinking to
express this commitment. Against the
background of the Commissions earlier proposals (set out in COM(76)359 final and COM(77)6l final), the present communication aims to put forward certain
orientations to guide the Community in determining the type and characteristics of a Common Fund which should be the object of negotiations.
2. The Commission recalls that over time a series of elements have "been drawn together to constitute the "basis of a Community position and that these concern notably the prime responsibility of producers and consumers in defining and implementing measures in individual commodity markets, within the framework of commodity agreements or arrangements, and that a common fund should act
as an interrelating and supporting financial link for such agreements and arrangements. InthelightoftheCommunitypositionasithasevolvedso
far in the Negotiating Conference and in the preparatory talks which preceded it and of the political commitment reached at the CIEC, the Community must approach these negotiations on the basis of clear orientations governing its view of the role of the Common Fund as "a key instrument" of the Integrated Programme on Commodities (IPC).
2.1 The first of these orientations governs the relationships between the Common Fund and the individual commodity organisations (iCOs) set up to
managetheprovisionsofspecificagreementsandarrangements. The Commission views the Common Fund as a mechanism for the financial
support of these agreements and arrangements. It adheres to the view that decisions on the specific measures to be applied in individual commodity cases should be taken at the same time as, and with due regard to, the various means by which they may be financed.
2.2 Orientations which the Commission suggests should determine the role
of the Common Fund in this context are as follows:
_ in implementing its functions related to the financing of inter­ national buffer stocks and internationally co-ordinate;! buffer stocks for ;: .rket ar.d price stabilisation, the Conxion Fund should work through the appropriate international, commodity specific- organir.atio:;.-;.
y "l the i i-y 'cc nec^.-r „ bei*:j g".- :.ni,o^d
Consideration should be given to the possible role of the Common Fund
in facilitating financial contributions to measures other than buffer stocks provided that they be specifically agreed between producers find consumers within the framework of commodity agreements or arrangements, and in close co-ordination with the interested international development agencies .
The Common Fund's main aim should in this way be to help foster
stable conditions for commodity trade, its main object being to facilitate the stabilisation of prices in line with the long-term market trends detercinedtysupply and demand, without being empowered to
engage in direct management of commodity markets .
All steps taken by the Common Fund to implement its functions for
the stabilisation of markets and prices should be in the context
of clear agreement between consumers an 3 producers concerned .
Where dppror.riaJ.o "ino.nciu^ arr:.rgen;e':.trj • fcr - ^ orer rtw material producing developing countries could be envisaged, but,
apart from r-tich arranger: its, the Fund choulc. operate on thj b^sis of a
body of rule a which wculd apply to . all participants . o• '''
The Common -Tund should be a comprehensive organisation open to ,&xl
by all coufitriec having inefficient resources, and operating on the | basis of sound financial rules .
3» In the Commission's view the task of the negotiating Conference should be to determine the characteristics of the Common Fund on the basis of such orientations, in the light of a realistic assessment of individual commodity- needs .
4. The UfTCTAD Secretary-General stated at the Negotiating Conference on
7th March that "the existence or otherwise of a Common Fund must ... make a crucial difference to the individual negotiations". The reverse is also
true; and an appraisal of existing commodity agreements (l), negotiations (2), and preparatory meetings (3) offers certain useful background elements to any working hypothesis on a Common Fund.
– Commodity agreements . The Tin Agreement provides for an operative
stock 'financed by obligatory producer and voluntary consumer
contributions ; the Cocoa Agreement- has stocking provisions , supported
by substantial funds, but as yet no stock; afid the coffee agreement operates on the basis of export quotas. The Cocoa, Coffee and Olive
oil Agreements provide for measures in the area of publicity and propaganda.
_ Negotiations'. The Sugar Conference, (l8th April - 27th May, 1977) did not reach agreement; the Community's ideas for an agreement based on co-ordinated national stocks were not accepted . However , participants have been invited to submit further ideas on stockholding and
(3) Bananas, copper, cotton axA. cotton yariis, nard f1ores an« prouuoos, jute and jute products, natural rubber, tropical timber, vegetable oils
and oilseeds .
Preparatory meetings . Li addition to sugar , stocking rystens have tie en discussed in connection with a certain number of commodities notably rubber (where producers' proposals are under active consideration) and copper and jute. Supply management schemes are also under discussion for those two and other commodities and export quotas may be considered for tea and bananas . Furthermore , there are several commodities or groups of commodities for which othsr measures – some needing finance – are being considered - e.g. bananas , cotton , hard fibres , jute , natural
rubber , tea , tropical timber , vegetable
oils and oilseeds .
It "
considered , within which international stocks , internationally co-ordinated national stocks, export quotas and other measures within - and outside – commodity agreements and arrangements may all feature.
5. Against this background the Commission proposes that the Common Fund should take the form of a clearing account between ICOs
Individual commodity agreements would be required to pay a given percentage of the monies at their disposal into this account in return for the right
to draw on this account as, when and if market movements required tltemVtfr- build up their stocks. In this way each individual commodity organisation would make direct financial provision for a certain proportion only of its stocking needs , thus achieving financial economies . It should be the major task of the Negotiating Conference to define the details of this arrangement,
- terms on -vrJ-ch ucri-sR should i e both <>;;.osi-feod en i •.liv.vir.; . anr* - ti".'. «• ' ";1. '• e" "-.le■ gov.rr.:!. ' voi 'io;.:'•;
would
appear , therefore , that a diversity of solutions will need to be
role right be '1-uii'"11•
6« In the light of the assessments of individual commodity situations (paragraph 4) it seems that a line of credit is likely to be necessary to ensurethe^goodfunctioningofthisclearingaccount* Suchalineof credit would be conceived as a line of defence in the eventuality of
commodity markets moving in the same direction at the same time, and if the Common Fund started to function when most buffer stocks were not in
a financial surplus situation; loan monies could then be made quickly availableforthenecessarystockbuildingoperations. Anexamination would therefore have to be undertaken of the most suitable form and
modalities that such a line of credit might have; of the manner in which members of individual commodity agreements and of the Common Fund agreement could draw on the buffer stock facility of the International Monetary
Fund (IKF) and/or envisage a system of own resources taking the form of capital on call .and guaranteed by the members of the Conmo;: Fund or in
some other way; cind of the extent to which the participation of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (I3RD) in a guaranteed
line of credit system might be brought about .
7.* In addition to'therf eTei»ei:t~f-con^'ilerat_on shoal- oe giver, to the rolethatuCoitionFundndjl.tU,\rointhefixing r*.rurcoother
than buffer storks, fel tecr. cpecifi^.lly ugref1 between producers and consumers w:thit; irte-r.Htiorj.1 co;jlt= riity agreements or arr:.nger,ientr;f such measures being oft-sn of no.;t importance to the poorest producing
..A : - c.* \.m ffi.i-, :•= -cv: 4ii.g to '.liat rina/.v-As: 1 J'ult-r ;, r–h whether, oi-d ± --o .^jw --- 1:5
scope of any possible Fund role r.V.ouV
8. Within the framework of the role or roles agreed in negotiation for a Common Fund, subsidy provisions could be considered with regard to the particular needs of the poorest developing countries . Examination of any such provision should be undertaken in the light of 'the role and use of any voluntary contributions which Fund members may wish to make.
9. As a further part of its role as "a key instrument" of the IFC, the
Common Fund will require to engage in systematic co–operation vtith the ICCs-, an- a necessary
^ with other international bodies concerned with commodity trade and the • major international organisations working in areas of development
touching on commodity production and marketing ( l ). In this context the Fund could receive information on trends in commodity markets so as to
establish a background information framework for the Fund's financial activities .
10 . As far as its orgaviisatiou is concerned , the . Common Fond should consist of a small secretariat ^ er the control of a relatively limited Executive
Board, responsible in turn to,.a . Governing Council op'-n to all members . Decisions in the Board u:d in the Council should normally be readied b;<
consensu:".; but forral decision malcing procedures -'IT,?..3: be established for use -
( l ) e.g. UITCTAD, IT-TT1, General Agreement on T~riff3 and Trade ( GATT), (IBID), United nations Development Programme (TJTOP), Food and
Agriculture Organisation (FAO), International Fund for Agricultural Development (lFAI>).
mutadis mutandis – at "both levelsf on issues of major importance* These procedures should so far as possible respect the following elements:
– the voting system adopted should not expose the Fund to an undue risk of politicisation;
– so far as possible, the decision making processes should take account of the interests of trading countries whether producers or consumers or both;
– a careful balance should be struck between the rights and obligations of ICOs as expressed within the Fund's general rules and the rights and obligations of countries members entering into financial obligations with the Fund, in ways to be determined.
Against this background it would seem appropriate to explore a system, combining . the interests of consumers and producers and of- finarcial contributors with the interest of the totality of members. Ways might be considered of allowing each of these groups a decisive voice on all matters of major importance, e.g. by making decisions dependent on a majority within each group , or by a qualified majority system .
11. The Commission has recalled (in documents COM(76)359 final and COM(77)6l final) that international arrangements concerning
commodity trade come within the ambit of the Common Commercial Policy and therefore of Article 113 of the Treaty of Rome. Given the plenipotentiary nature of the Negotiating Conference on the Common Fund, the Commission further notes that it will be desirable, at an appropriate moment, to draw the attention of the President of the Negotiating Conference to the fact that the Convention or other international instrument which establishes the Common Fund should cover the special position of the Community.
12. In the light of the foregoing the Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers that a Community approach should be defined along the lines set out in paragraphs 2-10 above, for use both in discussions with its Group B/OECD partners and in the Negotiating Conference itself, according
to strategy?. and" tactics to be determined by the Community in due course . The Commission will ensure that supporting background papers on the main elements contained in this Communication will subsequently be prepared for more detailed examination in the appropriate Community bodies as the discussion evolves .
concerning international negotiations on a Common Fund for Commodities
( Communication from Messrs. Cheysson . Haferkamp and Davignon )
This matter is on the agenda for the Commission, on 21 September 1977*
Members of the Mr Meyer
The Community must define how the commitment taken at the Conference on International Economic Co-operation (CIEC) on the Common Fund should be cast into terms of a concrete proposition prior to the reconvened Common Fund Negotiating Conference in November.
The proposal rests essentially on the provision of a pooling mechanism between individual commodity organisations supported by a guarantee facility. The Communication also contains proposals concerning the management and decision-making arrangement for the Common Fund and the possibility of setting up a provisional framework agreement . It examines also the politically important issues of whether or not special arrangements should be conceived concerning the poorer producing developing countries and - whether or not the Common Fund should have a role concerning measures other than buffer stocks.
A first Annex describes briefly the state of play in discussions and negotiations concerning individual commodities.
A second Annex contains a Recommendation for a Council Decision on the participation of the Community in the Negotiating Conference.
1. Following the first part of the United Nations Negotiating Conference on
the Common Fund (7th March - 3rd April, 1977) and the Community's decision in Rome on 25th March, 1977 that "there should be commodity price stabilisation
agreements where appropriate and that there should be a Common Fund", all participants in the Conference on International Economic Co-operation (CIEC)
"that a Common Fund should be established as a new entity to serve as
a key instrument in attaining the agreed objectives of the Integrated Programme for Commodities as embodied in UNCTAD Resolution 93(lV).
They also agreed that its specific purposes and objectives, as well as its other constituent elements, will continue to be negotiated in the UnitedNationsConferenceonTradeandDevelopment(UNCTAD). /Andthegj pledged themselves to secure a successful conclusion at the forthcoming resumed session of the United Nations Neogtiating Conference on a
Common Fund scheduled for November 1977 at plenipotentiary level."
The Community will thus enter the second round of the negotiations, to be held in Geneva between 7th November and 2nd December, on the basis of a clear political commitment which must now be defined in a form capable of detailed presentation and defence.
2. The purpose of the present communication is to honour this political commitment by translating it into a concrete proposal for a Common Fund. Drawing on work conducted hitherto both within the Community and between the Community and its industrialised country partners, the proposal is based on the establishment of a Common Fund in the form of a pooling of the resources made available within individual buffer stock agreements, on the understanding that a sufficient number of such agreements can be induced to participate.
Six main problem areas require attention
and decision in order to determine the contents of a Community position for
the reconvened Negotiating Conference, namely:
- whether or not the Common Fund's activities should be related
exclusively to the financing of buffer stocks or should have a role
in the financing of measures other than buffer stocks ;
- whether or not special arrangements may be conceived, to facilitate
the participation of poorer producing developing countries in
commodity agreements;
– the functioning and feasibility of a Common Fund as a pooling mechanism
between buffer stock agreements;
– whether or not an element of own resources or a guarantee facility
should be provided for the Common Fund and the form that this should
- the management and decision-making arrangements for a Common Fund;
– whether or not a provisional framework agreement might be required prior
to the entry into force of sufficient buffer stock agreements and the
conditions under which this would enter into operation.
These issues are outlined seriatim together with proposals in each case. It
is recalled that in many detailed issues not covered here, but which may take' on importance as the negotiation evolves, sufficient margin must be left to theCommunity'snegotiators. TheCommissionmayalsowishtoreturnindue course to the Council with appropriate supplementary proposals concerning
the Community's negotiating position as and when the circumstances of the negotiation require.
The Commission recalls that both developing and industrialised countries
during the first part of the Negotiating Conference have agreed that the main function of any Common Fund should relate to the financing of buffer stocks.
The provisional position paper submitted "by Group B during the March Negotiating Conference stated:
- "Whilst fully recognising the importance of measures other than buffer stocking, the need and scope for a Common Fund in this context should be further explored having due regard to the international machinery which currently support such measures. If other measures are to be financed through a Common Fund, the account for such financing should be kept separate from that of buffers-stock financing."
It must be noted, however, that preparatory talks and negotiations so far on the 18 products covered by the UNCTAD Integrated Programme for Commodities indicate that only some of these commodities may be subject to the conclusion of commodity agreements based on buffer stocks (see Annex I). For developing commodity producing countries a role for the Common Fund in the financing of other measures than buffer stocks is of major importance and they do not envisage a successful conclusion to the Negotiating Conference without them. The Commission remains, however, of the opinion that most of the measures so far envisaged, e.g. in the Integrated Programme (l), could and should be financed by the established existing international agencies (e.g. International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), or regionalbanks). Theseagenciesarealreadyactivelyengagedinpromoting
commodity exports, production, and treinsformation in the context of overall economic development . It is hard to see what advantage to international co-operation may be obtained from the establishment of a new, inexperienced,
and relatively small agency with no direct market involvement, whose decision- making procedures would scarcely be compatible with those of a development agency. A pooling mechanism operating essentially with revolving funds for buffer stocks
(l) Theserangefrompromotionalactivities,researchanddevelopmentfor improved product quality and use, to product processing, to diversifi­ cation out of production, and to provision of infrastructure fostering trade, production or productivity.
 -5- VIIl/768/77-E/Rev. 1. would not lend itself to the concessional
and non-recoverable financing which "other measures" would appear essentially to involve, and any financing for other measures would require a second separate mechanism. The Commission does not, therefore, propose any Community initiative at this stage concerning other measures.
A Common Fund based on a pooling system for buffer stock financing would
help the special position of poorer producing developing countries only insofar as it achieved overall financial economies on the financing of stocks of interest to them. Discussions on certain individual commodities have shown
that such countries may be disinclined to enter into stocking arrangements without an element of additional help. Such help might be provided by the International Monetary Fund's (IMF) Buffer Stocking Facility, although its interest rates are not concessional . The Commission proposes that the .
Community should indicate its readiness in due course to examine what elements of subsidy to IMF interest rates might be required and what role there might be for the Common Fund in provision of such concessional finance. This would clearly imply a separate financial provision for the Common Fund distinct from the pooling arrangement and its accompanying guarantee mechanism.
1. On the basis of Commission proposals the Council in March defined the Community's Opening Position in the Negotiating Conference in terms of a pooling system, i.e. an arrangement whereby commodity buffer stock agreements agree to deposit a proportion of their financial resources with a central pool in return for guaranteed drawing rights on that pool. This approach
in turn became the core of the position put forward in the Negotiating
 Conference by the Group B industrialised countries . Expert discussions * before, during and since the March opening session of the Negotiating
Conference have exposed a number of technical variations as to how such a pool could function without any clear choice being adopted. The purpose of this Communication is to propose formally the outline of such a pool.
2. Any form of pooling mechanism is based On a combination of agreed deposit obligations on the one hand and of maximum drawing rights on the other. Theproblemistodeterminetheoptimumlevelsofthesetwoelements and their relationship to each other and this from the points of view of the optimal functioning of the pool, the attainment of a maximum degree of financial "savings'1 to be obtained compared with the situation in which individual buffer stock agreements are financed in isolation, and the provision of sufficient attraction to induce buffer stock agreements to associate with the pool.
3. Deposit obligations. A number of ideas have been put forward:
– deposit of all financial resources made to individual agreements;
– deposit, for the first buffer stock purchases, of a given percentage
of the resources made available to individual agreements;
– a system requiring individual agreements to finance a first
percentage of their buffer stock purchases, with recource to the Common Fund for their later purchases in periods of greater economic difficulty.
The final scheme will very much depend on further discussions and negotiations . But on the basis of factors set out below there seems to be merit in a median
course, whereby participating buffer stock agreements deposit a certain proportion only of their funds:
- Examination of the commodities that might come within a pooling system in the foreseeable future suggests that if the participating commodity agreements were to deposit around half of their funds, the Common Fund should have sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations and to achieve overall financial "savings" by means of the compensation effected.
- A requirement for individual commodity agreements to deposit more than half of their resources in the Common Fund would probably discourage them from joining in the first place. In any case the
deposit obligation must be in line with the financial requirement for an average stockholding level .
- It would be easier to move towards higher deposit levels in the light of experience than to evolve in the opposite direction.
The level of overall "savings" which could be expected from the operation
of a system of this kind will only ι
become apparent m the light of experience. But on the basis of various models concerning the participation of individual commodities and the movements of markets, they may currently be assumed to be of the region of
15/20$ of the total otherwise required for separate buffer stock financing.
4 * Drawing rights . The maximum drawing right would be calculated as the sum of the deposit obligation plus a given percentage. This percentage would be in line with the expected proportion of "savings" to be achieved by the pool. Study hitherto suggests that this will be in the region of 15–20$ and that it may provide a sufficient margin of incentive to buffer stock agreements to associate with the pool.
5. The arrangements negotiated will need to be encompassed in a set
of clear rules, capable of as automatic an application as possible on a strictly non-discriminatory basis between individual commodity agreements. These will provide the terms on which bilateral agreements can be signed between these individual commodity agreements and the Common Fund. It should be a major task of the Negotiating Conference to reach agreement on these rules, having particular reference to the following points:
– Appli cat ion/withdrawal ; each individual commodity agreement will be free to decide whether or not to join in the Common Fund system. If they join they must accept the full obligations involved. If they decide to withdraw they should only do so after due notice. It would be desirable to establish the general rule that new commodity agree­ ments do associate with the Common Fund and that they (a) remain within the Fund for a minimum of two years, (b) make their necessary deposit at the moment of joining and (c) agree to repay their loans in full at the moment of withdrawal, after due notice. The Common Fund should itself have the right, by duly considered majority decision, to ask for any individual commodity agreement to withdraw from the system, if it believed that its credit facilities were
– Interest rate policy: expert examination so far indicates that provision for the repayment of interest on both deposits and on
drawings would be more likely to guarantee the attractiveness
of the pool to individual agreements and thereby its viability. Interest rates for both deposits and overdraft drawings should be
closely related to going market rates. Whatever rates are applied., the rates charged on drawings should be marginally higher than those charged on deposits: the differential might "be used to cover administrative costs.
The pool may, however, at times "be in danger of being exhausted and for
the following reasons not be able by itself to give a 10C$ guarantee that the credit necessary to meet all its maximum drawing right obligations would be available all the time .
Commodity markets might move downwards at the same time and lead to such a demand for credit for financing stocking operations that the pool would become exhausted.
Implementation of price or tonnage review
clauses within commodity agreements might pose some short-term strain on the resources available .
There may be need for ancillary resources during the initial period of stock building, particularly in connection with commodity agree­ ments financing stocks out of levies on trade.
Some form of guarantee (or back–up) facility will, therefore, be required to enable maximum drawing rights to be guaranteed absolutely and to enable, the Common Fund to act as a source of supportive loan finance in connection with initial stock building operations and/or stock building required as a result of either price or tonnage review , foreseen within commodity agreements . The Commission proposes that its maximum size might be stated as the difference
(currently assumed to be 15–20$) between deposit obligations and maximum drawing rights , plus a reasonable margin - say 10$ – for variations in given commodity prices during any 12-month period.
2. Methods of guarantee provision. Various ways of providing such a guarantee may be envisaged, namely:
- by existing international financial institutions ;
- by direct government contributions ;
– by means of loans raised on the capital market with suitable
sations such as the IBRD and IMP, it hag been suggested, might provide the guarantee to the Common Fund. However there are certain difficulties
that would limit the Bank's efficacity:
– its terms 6f reference focus very much on development rather than on
stabilisation of trade ;
– there are several interested commodity trading countries which are not
members of the Bank and it will be essential to involve them, particularly
those which are prominent in commodity trade;
– complicated changes of articles might be required, with in any
event decisions requiring submission to the Bank's Board. 2.2 Direct contributions. It has been suggested that participating
governments should endow the Common Fund with a directly contributed element of own resources. This has met with considerable resistance
from the majority of industrialised countries. An analagous suggestion that individual governments might make voluntary contributions suffer from the drawback that such an approach would not provide the certain source of supplementary financial support required.
2.3 Loan finance could be provided from the capital market. Such borrowing operations would require sufficient collateral. This collateral could be provided bys
- liens on buffer stocks ;
- provision of nubscribed or callable capital from participating governments .
Examination has shown that liens on buffer stocks would not on their own provide sufficient collateral for the borrowing requirements. As for
capital provision by governments no case has hitherto been made indicating any advantage to be obtained from the provision of subscribed paid–up capital compared with callable capital which could provide much of if not the totality of the collateral requirements for borrowing operations .
3. The basis for financing. The Commission proposes that a combination of the above elements should be employed in order to constitute the guarantee facility. Thepossibilityofsomefinancebeingprovidedbyexisting
international financial institutions and by direct government contributions shouldcontinuetobeexplored. Anadditionalborrowingrequirementmust, however, be expected. Collateral for part of this borrowing will be provided byliensonstocks. Aresidualelementofcollateralappearslikelytobe required. TheCommission,therefore,proposesthatallgovernmentspartici­ pating in the Fund^"0ith the exception of countries with a GNP per capita below $300, should participate (on a GNP basis) in providing capital on call up to the overall maximum required, less such sums which can in time reliably be assured by international organisations, from voluntary governments contributions, or from loans raised through liens on stocks.
1. The Commission sees two major realistic choices concerning membership.
– Membership both of commodity councils and of individual countries, with a careful balance of voting between the two;
– reserving membership to individual countries, leaving individual commodity councils as observers, on the basis that relations between individual councils and the Fund are to be the subject of clear and
automatic rules governing the Fund's operations.
(l) Includingcountrieswhich,whilstpossiblynotmembersofindividualcommodity agreements, are in substantial financial surplus.
The Commission proposes the second alternative. It sees the Fund as a
financial mechanism and believes that the more it can operate on the basis
of clear and automatic rules and limit the need' for policy decisions, the better it will be. (The main policy areas where policy decisions may be required are the accession to or withdrawal from the Fund; acceptance or not of voluntary deposits; interest rate and investment policy, including the use of profits, utilisation of subscribed1 or callable capital; utilisation of additional voluntarily subscribed capital.)
2. Management should be placed in the hands of an Executive Manager, with a small Secretariat ," who will be responsible to a Board of Management of
(say) 20-25 members drawn from a Council open to all participating members as well as to observers .
3. Dec'ision-making. Against this background steps should be taken to give those countries most involved in commodity trade or providing the major financial support for the Fund a deciding voice in policy decisions .
– One option would be for a straight voting system calling for a large majority, possible 75-805o, to approve any major policy proposal. It would
have the merit of simplicity. But it might politicise decisions to the detriment of the real commercial and financial interests involved.
– An alternative to be studied would be a system of country voting within three groups, namely a consumers group, a producers group, and a finance
group, with countries being able to vote in all three groups in accordance
with their gross imports or exports of the commodities participating in
the pool (first and second groups) and with the scale of their obligatory financial obligations (third group). Major policy proposals might require a simple majority of votes , i.e. over 50% in each group in order to be adopted .
4. An international arrangement for the establishment of a Common Fund falls within the area of Community competence . It is , therefore , necessary that the Community as such participates in the Negotiation. Furthermore provision must
be made at the appropriate moment for the Community as such to become member of the agreement. A recommendation for a Council decision concerning the participation of the Community in the Negotiating Conference is at Annex II. .
The Community may be asked to take up a position on the early establish­
ment of a framework agreement . This would become operational as and when
enough commodity agreements were able and willing to participate. Readiness
to entertain it might have the advantage of fostering acceptance by the
developing countries of the pooling concept . The Commission proposes that if
the advantage seems likely to be realised an indication, at a suitable moment,
of agreement in principle to set up such an interim framework agreement could
be useful. But it would only enter into force once sufficient buffer-stock
agreements are ready to participate. To this end the Community is ready to concen­ trate on a limited number of commodity agreements, negotiated within a given time.
The Commission proposes to the Council of Ministers to decide on a
Community position along the lines set out above, for use both in ongoing discussions with its Group B/OECD partners and according to strategy a,nd tactics to be determined in due course in the Negotiating Conference itself.
Preliminary meetings and negotiations on the individual commodities on the UUCTAD list have continued according to a programme due to last
(according to Resolution 93(lV)) until the end of 1978* This Annex sketches briefly the state of these meetings and negotiations.
- Commodity agreements^ Of the four operative agreements (cocoat coffee,
olive oil, tin) one - the Tin Agreement - provides for an operative
stock financed by obligatory producer and voluntary consumer contributions a second - Cocoa – has stocking provisions, supported by substantial levy- based funds, but a's yet no stock, and a third – Coffee - operates on the basis of export quotas . Three agreements – Cocoa , Coffee , and Olive Oil – make modest provision for measures in the area of publicity and propaganda
- Negotiations The first round of the Sugar Conference (l8th April -
27th May, 1977) failed to reach agreement. A second round will take place 12th - 30th September on the basis of a draft providing buffer reserve stock of 223 million tons and for an export quota system. Because of the extent of the divergences of interest the outcome will remain in doubt to the last minute .
- Preparatory meetings^ Systems of international and/or internationally co-ordinated national stocks have also been discussed in connection with some other commodities – notably rubber (where producers* proposals are under active consideration) and jute and copper (for which supply manage­ ment schemes are also under discussion). Insofar as other commodities
on the UNCTAD list are concerned (l), a wide variety of measures has already "been "brought forward for discussion , including supply management ,
export quotas, promotion, improved production and marketing methods, and research and development.
(l) Banans, copper, cotton and cotton yarns, hard fibres and products,
jute and jute products, natural rubber, tropical timber, vegetable oils and oilseeds .
on the participation of the Community in the Negotiating Conference on a Common Fund, provided for in the UNCTAD IV Resolution adopting the Integrated Programme for Commodities
The Council of the European Communities,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to the recommendation of the Commission,
Whereas the final document of the Conference on International Economic Co-operation calls for a successful conclusion at the forthcoming resumed session of the United Nations Negotiating Conference on a Common Fund,
Whereas it is appropriate that the Community should take part in the Negotiating Conference, which concerns matters relating to the cotomon commercial policy,
Whereas it is also necessary to proceed within the framework of international organisations of an economic character only by common action,
- The Community is hereby authorised to participate in the Negotiating Conference on a Common Fund,
- The spokesmen of the Community will be the Presidency of the Council and the Commission,
- As regards matters coming within Community competence on the basis of Article 113 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, the Commission shall conduct the negotiations in accordance with the provisions of that Article,
- The negotiations will be conducted within the framework of the guidelines defined in the Annex (l)*
(l) To be established in the light of the outcome of the deliberations of the Council on the proposal of the Commission.
Subject: Common Commodity Fund (COM(77)365/2)
Results of special Chefs de Cabinet's meeting,
As arranged at the Chefs de. Cabinet's weekly meeting, the Chefs de Cabinet met on Tuesday 20 September 1977 , with the President's Deputy Chef de Cabinet, Mr Phillips, in the chair, to prepare the Commission's discussion on the above subject at its kkjrd meeting.
Mrs Quintin (DG I), Mr Schmallenbach (DG II), Mr Nicolai (DG III), Mr Cox, Mr Durieux and Mr Russell (DG VIII),
It was" agreed to report to the Commission as follows.
 1. At the end of the discussion it was agreed to recommend that the Commission adopt the communication as annexed, embodyirjg
the observations put forward at the meeting.
2. It was noted that the Commission would have before it at its proceedings next day an additional document containing other
proposals by some countries in this connection.
3. Procedurally, it was agreed to suggest that to ensure the necessary interdepartmental coordination all documents intended
to follow up the ideas vented at the North/South Conference should be routed via the Task Force before submission to the Commission
(or the Council in the case of working papers).
concerning international negotiations on a Common Fund for Commodities
(ConEtini cation from Messrs. Cheysson, Haferkamp and Davignon)
UNITED NATIONS NEGOTIATING CONFERENCE ON A COMMON FUND Under the integrated procrakms for cciikodities
The Community must define how the commitment taken at the Conference on International Economic Co-operation (CIEC) on the Common Fund should be cast into ttfrms of a concrete proposition prior to the reconvened Common Fund Negotiating Conference in November.
The proposal rests essentially on the provision of a pooling mechanism between individual commodity organisations supported by a guarantee facility. The Communication also contains proposals concerning the management and decision-majang arrangement for the Common Fund and the possibi '. i. iy of setting up a provisional framework agreement . It examines also .■: ■ * politically important issues of whether or not special arrangem.'/.. should
be conceived concerning the poorer producing developing countries
whether or not the Common Fund should have a role concerning measures other than buffer stocks .
1. Following the first part of the United Nations Negotiating Conference on
the Common Fufod (7th March - 3rd April, 1977) and the Community's decision in Rome on 25th faareh, 1977 that "there should be commodity price stabilisation agreements wh%re appropriate and that there should he a Common Fund", all participants 'in the Conferenoe on International Economio Co-operation (CIEC) agreed:
"that a 'Common Fund should be established as a new entity to serve as a key instrument in attaining the agreed objectives of the Integrated
■! Programme for Commodities as embodied in UNCTAD Resolution 93(IV).
! They alsto agreed that its specific purposes and objectives, as well as
its othe:t> constituent elements, will continue to be negotiated in the UnitedNationsConferenceonTradeandDevelopment(UNCTAD). /Andthe^7 pledged themselves to secure a successful conclusion at the forthcoming resumed Session of the United Nations Neogtiating Conference on a
Common Fluid scheduled for November 1977 at plenipotentiary level.w The Community will thus enter the second round of the negotiation, to be held in Genevtk between 7th November and 2nd December, on the basis; of a olear political Commitment which must now be defined in a form capable of detailed presentation and defence*
2. The pul'pbse of the present communication is to honour this political commitment by translating it into a concrete proposal for a Common Fund. Drawing on work conducted hitherto both within the Community and between the Community and its industrialised oountry partners, the proposal is based on the establishment of a Common Fund in the form of a pooling of the resources made available within individual buffer stock agreements, on the understanding
that a sufficient number of such agreements oan be induoed to participate.
Six main problem areas require attention
and decision in order to determine the content* of a Connunity position for the reconvened Negotiating Conference, namely*
– whether or not the Common Fund's activities should be related exclusively to the financing of buffer stocks or should have a role in the financing of measures other than buffer stocks;
– whether or not special arrangements may be conceived to facilitate the participation of poorer producing developing countries in commodity agreements;
■■ the functioning and feasibility' of a Common Fund as a pooling mechanism between buffer stock agreements;
• whether or not an element of own resources or a guarantee faoility should be provided for the Common Fund and the form that this should take ;
– the management and decision-making arrangements for a Common Fund;
– whether or not a provisional framework agreement might be required prior 4
to the entry into force of sufficient buffer stock agreements and the
conditions under which this would enter into operation.
These issues are outlined seriatim together with proposals.in each case* It
is recalled that in many detailed issues not covered here, but which may take on importance as the negotiation evolves, sufficient margin must be left to the Comnunity's 'negotiators . The Commission may also tfish to return in due course to the Council with appropriate supplementary proposals concerning
the Community's negotiating position as and when the oircumstances of the negotiation require*
The Commission reoalle that both developing *nd iildustrialised countries *
during the first part of the Negotiating Conference have agreed tfyxt the main function of any Common Fund should relate to the financing of buffer stocks*
The provisional position paper submitted by Group B during the March Negotiating Conference stated:
– "Whilst fully recognising the importance of measures other than buffer stocking, the need and scope for a Common Fund in thin context should be further explored having due regard to the international machinery which currently support such measures.
If other measures are to be financed through a Common Fund, the j 1t
? account for such financing should be kept separate from that of '
It must be noted, however, that preparatory talks and negotiations so far on <
the 18 products covered by the UNCTAL Integrated Programme for Commodities ?
indicate tha'k only some of these commodities may be subject to the conclusion j S
of commodity agreements based on buffer stocks, . _ For certain developing j
commodity producing countries a role for the Common Fund in the financing of other »
y measures than buffer stocks; is of ma$or importance: and the developing countries 5
as a group cannot >- ^/envisage a successful conclusion to the Negotiating Conference without them. ^
The Commission remains, however, pf the opinion that moat of the mearjuren BO | i
far envisaged, e.g. in the Integrated Programme (l), could and should be | iI-*.««•**•1«ti.i•m •/»aa•«t'
financed by the established existing international agencies (e.g. International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), United lïations Developr ont I Programme (UftDP), International Fund for Agricultural Development (IF;^), or i;
I regional banrcs)*' These agencies are already actively engaged in promoting X
commodity exports, production, and transformation in the context of overall J economio development* It is hard to see what advantage to international j co-operation may be obtained from the establishment of a new, inexperienced,
and relatively small agenoy with no direct market involvement, whose decision- making procedures would soaroely be compatible with those of a development agency. A pooling medhanism operating essentially with revolving funds for buffer rtoqk?
( l ) These rdmge from promotional activities , research and development for improved product quality and use, to product processing, to diversifi­ cation <»ut of production, and to provision of infrastructure foi/terir.j trade, pro-iuction or productivity.
 -5- VIIl/768/77-B/Rev. 1. would not lend its«lf to the concessional
and non-recoverable financing which "other measures" would appear essentially to involve* And any financing for other measures would require a second separate mechanism. .■ _ -
A Common Fund based on a pooling system for buffer stock financing would
help the special position of poorer producing developing oountric r only insofar as it achieved overall financial economies on the financing of stoclcs of interest to them. Disoussions on certain individual commodities have shown
that such ooittntries may be disinolined to enter into stocking arrangements without an element of additional help* Such help might be provided by the International Monetary Fundfs (IMP) Buffer Stocking Facility, although its interest rat 4s are not concessional . The Commission proposes that the Community should indicate its readiness in due course to examine what elements of subsidy tdi IMF interest rates might be required , and whether the Common Fund may play any role? in this framework#
1. On the basis of Commission proposals the Council ill March defined the Community's Opening Fosition in the Negotiating Conference in terms of a
pooling system, i.e. an arrangement whereby commodity biAffer stock agreements agree to deposit a proportion of their financial resources with a central pool in retmrtn for guaranteed drawing rights on that podl. This approach
in turn became the core of the position put forward in the Negotiating
Conference by -jfhe Group B industrialised countries. Expert discussions before, during and since the March opening session of the Negotiating Conference hav? exposed a number of technical variations as to how such a pool could function without any clear choice being adopted* The purpose of this Communication is to propose formally the outline pf such a pool.
2. Any form of pooling meohanism is based on a combination of agreed
deposit obligations on the one hand and of marLmum drawing rights on the other. The problem is to determine the optimum levels of these two elements
and their relationship to each other and this from the points of view of the optimal functioning of the pool, the attainment of a maximum degree of financial "savings'1 to be obtained compared with the situation in which individual buffer stock agreements are financed in isolation, and the provision of si^fficient attraction to induoe buffer stook agreements to
associate with the pool . > .
3. Deposit obligations. A number of ideas have been puw forward:
- deposit of all financial resources made to individual agreements;
- depositj for the first buffer stock purchases, of u given percentage of the resources made available to individual agreements;
- a system requiring individual agreements to finance a first percentage of their buffer stock purchases, with recource to the
• Common Fund for their later purchases in periods of greater economic difficulty .
The final scheme will very much depend on further discussions and negotiations
But on the basis of factors set out below there seems to be merit in a median
course, whereby participating buffer stock agreements deposit a certain \
proportion anly of their fundss
- Examination of the commodities that might comt within a pooling system in the foreseeable future suggests that if the participating commodity agreements were to deposit around half of their funds, the Common Fund should have suffloient liquidity to meet its obligations and to achieve overall financial "savings" by means of the compensation effected*
-A requirement for individual commodity agreements, to deposit more than half of their resources in the Common Fund niould probably disoourage them from joining in the first place. In any case the
deposit obligation must be in line with the financial requirement for an average stockholding level .
- It would be easier to move towards higher deposit levels in the light of experience than to evolve in the opposite direction.
The level of overall "savings" which could be expected from the operation of a system of this kind will only
become apparent in the light of experience. But on the lasis of various models concerning the participation of individual commodities and the movements of markets, they may ourrently be assumed to b«, of the region of 15/20$ of the total otherwise" required for separate buffer stock financing.
4 . Drawing rights . The maximum drawing right would be calculated as the sum of the deposit obligation plus a given percentage. This percentage would be in line with the expected proportion of "savings" to be achieved by the pool. 3tudy hitherto suggests that this will be in the region of 15-205o and that it may provide a sufficient margin of incentive to buffer stook agreements to associate with the pool.
 5. The arrangements negotiated will need to be encompassed in a set of clear rules, capable of as automatio an application an possible on a
strictly non-discriminatory basis between individual commodity agreements . These will provide the terms on whioh bilateral agreements can be signed betweentheseindividualcommodityagreementsandtheCommonFund* Itshould be a major task of the Negotiating Conference to reach ajpeement on these rules| having particular reference to the following pointst
–Application/withdrawal: eachindividualcommodityagreementwillbe free'todecidewhetherornottojoinintheCommonFundsystem. If theyjointheymustacceptthefullobligationsinvolved. Ifthey decidetowithdrawtheyshouldonlydosoafter<jLu«notice. Itwould
be desirable to establish the general rule that new commodity agree­ ments do associate with the Common Fund and that they (a) remain within the Fund for a minimum of two years, (b) make their necessary deposit at the moment of joining and (c) agree ti? repay their loans infullatthemomentofwithdrawal,afterduenotice• TheCommon Fund should itself have the right, by duly considered majority decision, to ask for any individual commodity agreement to withdfaw from the system, if it believed that ite credit facilities were 1
– Interest rate policy? expert examination so far indicates that provision for the payment of interest on both deposits and on
drawings would be more likely to guarantee the attractiveness
of the pool to individual agreements and thereby its viability, i Interest rates for both deposits and overdraft drawings should be
 closelyrelatedtogoingmarketrates. Whateverratesareapplied, the rates charged on drawings should be marginally higher than those
chargedondeposits: thedifferentialmight1mu#edtooover administrative costs*
1. The pool may, however^ at times be in danger of being exhausted and for the following reasons not be able by itself to give a 100£ guarantee that the
credit necessary to meet all its maximum drawing right obligations would be available all the time*
such a demand for credit for financing stocking operations that the pool would become exhausted*
– Implementation of price or tonnage review
clauses within commodity agreements might pose sope short–term strain on the resources available*
•• Theremaybeneedforancillaryresourcesduringtheinitialperiod of stopk building, particularly in connection witji commodity agree­ ments financing stocks out of levies on trade*
Some form of guarantee (or back-up) facility will, therefore, be required to enable maximum drawing rights to be guaranteed absolutely and to enable the Common Fund to act as a source of supportive loan finance in connection with initial stock building operations and/or stock building required as a result ofeitherpriceortonnagereview,foreseenwithincommodityagreements. The Commission proposes that its maximum size might be stated as the difference (currently assumed to be 15-20^) between deposit obligations and maximum drawing rights,
2. Methods of guarantee provision. Various ways of providing such a . guarantee may bq envisaged, namely;
- by existing international financial institutions ;
» by direct govemraent contributions !
- by means of loans raised on the capital market vitl], suitable
sations such as the IBRD and IKF, it has been suggested, might provide the guarantee to the Common Fund. However there are certa,in difficulties
that would limit the Bank's efficacity:
its terns of reference focus very much on development rather than on
stabilisation of trade;
there are several interested commodity trading countries which are net
members of the Bank and it will be essential to involve then, particular! those which are prominent in commodity trade;
complicated changes of articles might be required, with in any
event decisions requiring submission to the Bank's Board.' 2*2 Direct contributions. It has been suggested that participating
government^ should endow the Common Fund with a directly contributed element of own resources. This has met with considerable resistance from the majority of industrialised countries. An an$,lagous suggestion that individual governments might make .voluntary contributions suffer from the drawback that such an approach would not provide the certain source of supplementary financial support required,
2.3 "Loan finance could be provided from the capital market. Such borrowing operations would require sufficient collateral. This collateral could be provided bys
– liens on buffer stocks ;
– provision of subscribed or callable capital from participating
 Examination has shown that liena on buffer stocks would pot on their own provide sufficient collateral for the borrowing requirements. As for capital provision by governments no case has hitherto been made indicating any advantage to be obtained from the provision of subscribed paid-up capital compared with callable capital which could provide much
' of if not the totality of the collateral requirements for borrowing operations .
3. The basis for financing. The Commission proposes that a combination of the above elements should be employed in order to constitute the guarantee
facility. The possibility of some finance being provided by existing
international financial institutions and by direct government contributions
shoul'] continue to be explored . An additional borrowing requirement must ,
howevern be expected. Collateral for part of this borrowing will be provided
by liens on stocks . A residual element of collateral appears likely to be
required. The Commission, therefore, proposes that all governments partici­ pating in the Fund^^ith the exception of countries with a 6NP per capita
below $300, should participate (on a GNP basis) in providing capital on call up to the overall maximum required, less such sums which can in time reliably be assured by international organisations, from voluntary governments contributions, or from loans raised through iiens on stocksf ,
Ï-EM3ER3IIIP. MANAGEMENT, DECISION-MAKINO 1 The Commission sees two major realistic choiceo concerning momberchip. – Membership both of commodity councils and of individual countries,
with a careful balance of voting between the two;
– reserving membership to individual countries, leaving individual
oommodity councils as observers, on the basis that relations between individual councils and the Fund are to be the subject of clear and
automatic rules governing the Fund's operations.
Including countries which, whilst possibly not members of individual commodity agr– menta , are in substantial financial surplus .
The Coram!ssion proposes the second alternative. It sees thp Fund as a financial mechanism and believes that the more it can operate on the basis
^ of dear and automatic rules and limit the need for policy decisions, the better it will be. (The main policy areas where policy decisions may be
required are the accession to or withdrawal from the Fund; acceptance or not of voluntary deposits; interest rate and investment policyf including ,
the use of profits, utilisation of subscribed or callable capital; utilisation of additional voluntarily subscribed capital.)
2. Management phould be placed in the hands of an Executive Manager, with a nrrall Secretariat, who will be responsible to a Board of Jtfanagement of (say) 20-25 members drawn from a Council open to all participating members as well as to observers .
3* Decision-aaldLnff. Against this background steps should be taken to give those countries moet involved in commodity trade or providing the major financial support for the Fund a deciding voice in policy decisions.
- One option would be for a straight voting system calling for a large
majority^ possible 75-80$, to approve any major policy proposal. It would have the aerit of simplicity. But it might politicise decisions to the detriment of the real commercial and financial interests involved.
– An alternative to be studied would be a system of cciuntry voting within three groups, namely a oonstaners group, a producers group, and a finanoe
group, with countries being able to vote in all thr«.e groups in accordance ■ with their gross imports or exports of the commodities participating in
the pool (first and second groups) and with the scale of their obligatory financialijpartielpation (third group)V policy .proposals might
The Community may be asked to take up a position on the early establish­ ment of a framework agreement. This would beoome operational as and when enough commodity agreements were able and willing to participate. Readiness to entertain it flight have the advantage of fostering acceptance by the
. developing countries of the pooling concept. The Commission propose? that if
the advantage seems likely to be realised an indication, at a suitable moment,
of agreement in principle to set up such an interim framework agreement could
be useful. But it would only enter into force once sufficient buffer-stock "
agreements are re,ady to participate. To this end the Commur^ity is ready to concen– trate on a limited number of commodity agreements, negotiated within a given time.
As was agreed by all participants at the Conference on International
Economio Cooperation, the Common Fund is to serve as "a key instrument in attaining the agreed objectives of the Integrated Programme for Commodities".
Theestablishment of the Fund thus forms a central part of the Programme and
has to be considered1 in terms both of the- purposes of.; the Programme as a whole and in relation to the series of commodity agreements which are to be concluded. The purposes of the Programme direotly affect the operation of several
Community policies. Provision will therefore need to be made at an appropriate moment for the Community as such to become a party to the arrangements establishing the Common Fund.
For the reasons set out above, and having regard to the importance.of the
issues and the practice followed at the Conference on International Economic Cooperation , it is proposed that the Council should decide *
- that the Community position should be along the lines set out in the present Communication, both in discussions with Group B/OECD partners and at the Negotiating Conference?
- that th» Community and its Member States should participate in the Negotiating Conference as a single delegation, the spokesmen being
the Presidency of the Council and the Commission, the Commission- conducting negotiations for matter* coming within Community competence.
prominent is ;
concerning international negotiations on a Common Fund for Commodities
1. Following the first part of the United Nations Negotiating Conference on *»>
the Common Fuhd (7th March - 3rd April, 1977) and the Community's decision in Rome on 25th ttlarch, 1977 that "there should be commodity price stabilisation
agreements wh'Bre appropriate and that there should be a Common Fund", all participants :Ln the Conference on International Economic Co-operation (CIEC)
"that a 'Common Fund should be established as a new entity to serve as
a key instrument in attaining the agreed objectives of the Integrated Programme for Commodities as embodied in UNCTAD Resolution 93(lV).
They also agreed that its specific purposes and objectives, as well as its other constituent elements, will continue to be negotiated in the UnitedNationsConferenceonTradeandDevelopment(UNCTAD). /Andthe^7 pledged themselves to secure a successful conclusion at the forthcoming resumed session of the United Nations Neogtiating Conference on a
Common Fund scheduled for November 1977 at plenipotentiary level."
The Community will thus enter the second round of the negotiatiorr- , to be held in Geneva between 7th November and 2nd December, on the basic of a clear political commitment which must now be defined in a form capable of detailed presentation and defence.
2. The purpose of the present communication is to honour this political commitment by translating it into a concrete proposal for a Common Fund. . Drawing on wortc conducted hitherto both within the Community and between the Community and its industrialised country partners, the proposal is based on the establishment of a Common Fund in the form of a pooling of the resources made available within individual buffer stock agreements, on the understanding that a sufficient number of such agreements can be induced to participate.
Six main problem areas require attention
and decision in order to determine the contents of a Community position for
the reconvened Negotiating Conference, namely:
«• whether or not the Common Fund's activities should be related
exclusively to the financing of buffer stocks of should have a role
in the financing of measures other than buffer stocks;
– whether or not special arrangements may be conceived to facilitate
the participation of poorer producing developing countries in
commodity agreements;
– the functioning and feasibility of a Common Fund as a pooling mechanism
between buffer stock agreements;
– whether or not an element of own resources or a guarantee facility
should be provided for the Common Fund and the form that this should
– the management and decision-making arrangements for a Common Fund;
– whether or not a provisional framework agreement might be required prior 4
to the entry into force of sufficient buffer stock agreements and the
conditions under which this would enter into operation. Theseissuesareoutlinedseriatimtogetherwithproposalsineachcase. It
is recalled that in many detailed issues not covered here, but which may take on importance as the negotiation evolves, sufficient margin must be left to the Community's negotiators. The Commission may also Wish to return in due course to the Council with appropriate supplementary proposals concerning the Community's negotiating position as and when the circumstances of the negotiation require.
The Commission recalls that both developing and irldustrialised countries
during the first part of the Negotiating Conference have agreed that the main function of any Common Fund should relate to the financing of buffer 6tocks.
The provisional position paper submitted lay Group B during the March Negotiating Conference stated:
- "Whilst fully recognizing the importance of meajsures other than "buffer stocking, the need and scope for a Common Fund in this
context should be further explored having due regard to the international machinery which currently support such measures. If other measures are to he financed through a Common Pond, the account for such financing should he kept separate from that of buffer-stock financing."
It must be noted, however, that preparatory talks and negotiations so far on the 18 products covered by the UNCTAD Integrated Programme for Commodities indicate that only some of these commodities may be subject to the conclusion of commodity agreements based on buffer stocks . For certain developing commodity producing countries a role for the Common Fund in the financing of other measures than buffer stocks is of major importance and the developing countries as a group cannot envisage a successful conclusion to the Negotiating Conference without them. The Commission remains, however, of the opinion that most of the measures so far envisaged, e.g. in the Integrated Programme^\ could and should be financed by the established existing international agencies
(e.g. International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD), United «
Nations Development Programme (UNDP), International Fund for Agricultural Development ( IFAD), or regional banks ). These agencies are already actively engaged in promoting commodity exports, production, and transformation in
the context of overall economic development . It is hard to see what advantage to international cooperation may be obtained from the establishment of a new, inexperienced, and relatively small agency with no direct market involvement, whose decision-making procedures would scarcely be compatible with those of a development agency. A pooling mechanism operating essentially with revolving
(1) These range from promotional activities, research and development for improved product quality and use, to product processing, to diversifi­ cation out of production, and to provision of infrastructure fostering trade , production or productivity .
 fund,s for "buffer stacks would not lend itself to the concessional
and non-recoterable financing which "other measures* would appear essentially
to involve^ and any financing for other measures would require a second separate mechanism.
A Common Fund based on a pooling system for buffer stock financing would
help the special position of poorer producing developing countrio • only insofar as it achieved overall financial economies on the financing of stocks of interest to "them. Discussions on certain individual commodities have shown
that such countries may be disinclined to enter into stocking arrangements without an element of additional help. Such help might be provided by the International. Monetary Fund's ( IMF) Buffer Stocking Facility , although its interest rat<is are not concessional. The Commission proposes that the - .
Community should indicate its readiness in due course to examine what elements of subsidy to IKF interest rates might be required , and whether the Common.
Fund may play any rolff in this framework, _
1. On the basis of Commission proposals the Council ill March defined the
Community's (>pening Position in the Negotiating Conference in terms of a pooling system, i.e. an arrangement whereby commodity bulffer stock agreements agree to deposit a proportion of their financial resources with a central pool in return for guaranteed drawing rights on that podl. This approach
in turn became the core of the position put forward in the Negotiating
 Conference by fhe Group B industrialised countries. - Expert discussions
before, during and since the March opening session of the Negotiating *
Conference have exposed a number of technical variations as to how such a ... poolcouldfunctionwithoutanyclearchoicebeingadopted. Thepurpose of this Communication is to propose formally the outline euc& a pool..
2. Any form of pooling mechanism is based on a combination of agreed
deposit oblipations on the one hand and of maximum drawing rights on the other. The prpblem is to determine the optimum levels of these two elements
and their relationship to each other and this from the points of view of the optimal functioning of the pool, the attainment of a maxirptnn degree of financial "savings" to be obtained compared with the situation in which individual buffer stock agreements are financed in isolation, and the provision of sufficient attraction to induce buffer stpek agreements to associate with the pool.
Deposit obli/rations. A number of ideas have been puTf forward:
- deposit of all financial resources made to individual agreements?
- depositf for the first buffer stock purchases, of a given percentage of the resources made available to individual agreements;
- a system requiring individual agreements to finance a first percentage of their buffer stock purchases, with r<?cource to the ,
• Common Fund for their later purchases in periods of greater economic difficulty. >
The final scheme will very much depend on further discussions and negotiations'.
But on the basis of factors set out below there seems to pe merit in a median
course, whereby participating buffer stock agreements deposit a certain \
proportion only of their funds:
 – Exajnirjation of the commodities that might c01119 within s pooling ' system in the foreseeable future suggests that if the participating commodity agreements were to deposit around half_of their^ fundsf ' ; the Common Fund should have sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations and to achieve overall financial "savings'1 "by means Of
the ; compensation effected .
– A requirement for individual commodity agreement^ to deposit more ; ,
than half of their resources in the Common Fund toould probably v discourage them from joining in the first place# In any oase the ^
deposit obligation must be in line with the financial requirement for an average stockholding level *
^. .. .-r – It would be easier to move towards higher deposit levels in the
light of experience than to evolve in the opposite direction.
The level of overall "savings" which could be expected fitom the operation of a system of this kind will only
become apparent in the light of experience. But on the t^asis of various models concerning the participation of individual commodities ancl the movements of markets, they may currently be assumed to bq, of theregion of- 15/20$ of the total otherwise required for separate buffer stock financing.
4. Drawing rights? The maximum drawing right would be calculated as the sum of the deposit obligation plus a given percentage. This percentage would be in line with the .expected proportion of "savings" to be achieved ■
by the pool. Study hitherto suggests that this will be in the region of
15-20'fo and that it may provide a sufficient margin of inq/erytive to buffer : stock agreements to associate with the pool.
5. The arrangements negotiated will need to be encompassed in a set
of clear rules, capable of aa automatic an application an possible on a strictly non–discriminatory basis between individual conupodity agreements* These will provide the terms on which bilateral agreements can be signed between these individual commodity agreement "? and the Coinmon Fund . It should be a major tank of the Negotiating Conference to reach at^reement on these rules, having particular reference to the following pointsi
– Applioat ion/wit hdrawa1: each individual commodity agreement will be free to decide whether or not to join in the Common Fund system. If they join they must accept the full obligations involved. If they decide to withdraw they should only do so after due notice. It would be desirable to establish the general rule that new commodity agree­ ments do associate with the Common Fund and that they (a) remain within the Fund for a minimum of tuo years-, (b) make their nececsary depcc.Lt at the moment of joining and (c) agree to repay their ^oans in full at the moment of withdrawal, after due notice. The Common Fond should itself have the right, by duly considered majority decision, to ask for any individual commodity agreement to withdraw from the system, if it believed that its credit facilities were
- Interest rate policy: expert examination so fa* indicates that provision for the payment of interest on both deposits and on
drawings would be more likely to guarantee the attractiveness
of the pool to individual agreements and thereby its viability. Interest rates for both deposits and overdraft drawings should be
closely related to going market rates . Whatever ;rate3 are applied , the rates charged on drawings should be marginally higher than those
charged on deposits: the differential might be u#ed to cover administrative costs.
– Commodity markets might move downwards at the samp time and lead to
such a demand for credit for financing stocking operations that the
pool would become exhausted*
«• Implementation of price or tonnage review
clauses within commodity agreements might pose sqpe 6hort–■term strain on the resources available .
– There may be need for ancillary resources during the initial period of sto.3k building, particularly in connection witfo commodity agree­ ments financing stocks out of levies on trade.
Some form of guarantee (or back-ui>) facility will, therefore, be required to enable maximum drawing rights to be guaranteed absolutely and to enable the Common Fund to act as a source of supportive loan finance in connection with initial stock building operations and/or stock building required as a result of either price or tonnage review, foreseen within commodity agreements. The Commission proposes that its maximum size might be stated as the difference
(currently asstimed to be 15-20JJ) between deposit obligations and maximum drawing rights .
The pool may, however, at tines be in danger of beiri£ exhausted and for
the following reasons not be able by itself to give a lOOJc guarantee that the credit necessary to meet all its maximum drawing right obligations would be available all the time .
2. Methods of guarantee provision* Various ways of providing such a guarantee may be envisaged, namely:
– by existing international financial institutions ;
- by direct government contributions ;
– by means of loans raised on the capital market with, suitable
sations such as the IBRD and IKF, it has been suggested, might provide the guarantee tQ the Common Fund. However there are certain difficulties
that would limit the Bank's efficacity:
- its terms of reference focus very much on development rather than on
stabilisation of trade;
– there are several interested commodity trading countries which are not
members of the Bank and it will be essential to involve them, particularly
those which are prominent in commodity trade;
– complicated changes of articles might be required, with in any
event decisions requiring submission to the Bank's Board. 2.2 Direct conlributions . It has been suggested that participating
governmentsi should endow the Common Fund with a directly contributed element of own resources. This has met with considerable resistance from the majority of industrialised countries. An ang,lagous suggestion that individual governments might make voluntary contributions suffer from the drawback that such an approach would not provide the certain source of supplementary financial support required,
2.3 Loan finance could be provided from the capital market. Such borrowing operations would require sufficient collateral. This collateral could
! : provided by:
– liens on buffer stocks ;
- provision of subscribed or callable capital from participating
 Examination has shown that liens on buffer stocks would not on their own provide sufficient collateral for the borrowing requirements. As for capital provision by governments no case has hitherto been made indicating any advantage to be obtained from the provision of subscribed, paid-up capital compared with callable capital which could provide much of if not the totality of the collateral requirements for borrowing operations .
3. The basis for financing. The Commission proposes that a combination of the above elements should be employed in order to constitute the guarantee
facility. The possibility of some finance being provided by existing
international financial institutions and by direct government contributions
shoul3 continue to be explored. An additional borrowing requirement must,
howew.", be expected. Collateral for part of this borrowing will be provided
by liens on stocks . A residual element of collateral appears likely to be
required. The Commission, therefore, proposes that all governments partici­ patingintheFund^\withtheexceptionofcountrieswithaGUPpercapita
below $300, should participate (on a GNP basis) in providing capital on call un to the overall maximum required, less such sums which can in time reliably be assured by international organisations, from voluntary governments contributions, or from loans raised through iiens on stocks.
The Commission sees two major realistic choices concerning momberrhip. – Membership both of commodity councils and of individual countriesf
with a careful balance of voting between the two;
- reserving membership to individual countries, leaving individual
commodity councils as observers, on the basis that relations between individual councils and the Fund are to be the subject of clear and
automatic rules governing the Fund's operations.
Including countries which, whilst possibly not members of individual commodity agreements, axe in substantial finanoial surplus.
 The Commission proposes the second alternative* It sees the Fund as a
financial mechanism and believes that the more it can operate on the basis
of clear and automatic rules and limit the need for policy decisions, the better it will be. (The main policy areas where policy decisions may be required are the accession to or withdrawal from the Pond; acceptance or not of voluntary deposits; interest rate and investment policy, including the use of profits , utilisation of subscribed -or callable capital ; utilisation of additional voluntarily subscribed capital.)
2. Karapement Bhould be placed in the hands of an Executive Kanager, with a nnall Secretariat , who will be responsible to a Board of Management of
(s, y) 20-25 members drawn from a Council open to all participating members as well as to observers.
3. Decision–aakir/*. Against this background steps should be taken to give those countries most involved in conanodity trade or providing the major financial support for the Fund a deciding voice in policy decisions.
- One option would be for a straight voting system calling for a large
majority^ possible 75-80^, to approve any major policy proposal. It would have the merit of simplicity. But it might politicise decisions to the detriment of the real commercial and financial interests involved.
– An alternative to be studied would be a system of country voting within three groups, nanelya consumers group, a producers group, and a finance
group, with countries being able to vote in all thre>6 groups in accordance with their gross imports or exports of the commodities participating in the pool (first and second groups) and with the scale of their obligatory financial participation (third group) • Majo* policy j>ropoeals might
require a simple majority of votes, i.e. over 50$ in each^ group in _ order to be adoute d»
The Community may be asked to take up a position on the early establish­ es'
me-.tofaframeworkagreement. Thiswouldbecomeoperationalasandwhen
enoughcommodityagreementswereableandwillingtoparticipate. Readiness
to - entertain it flight have the advantage of fostering acceptance by the
developingcountriesofthepoolingconcept. TheCommissionproposesthatIf
the advantage 3eems likely to be realised an indication, at a suitable moment,
of agreement in principle to set up such an interim framework agreement could
beuseful. Butitwouldonlyenterintoforceoncesufficientbuffers-stock
agreements are ready to participate. To this end the Commur^ty is ready to concen­ trate on a limited number of commodity agreements, negotiated within a given time#
As x^as agreed by all participants at the Conference on International ^ ,
Economic Cooperation, the Common Fund is to serve as "a key instrument in attaining the agreed objectives of the Integrated Programme for Commodities". The establishment of the Fund thus forms a central part of the Programme and has to be considered" in terms both of the purposes of the Programme as a whole and in relation to the series of commodity agreements which are to be concluded. The purposes of the Programme directly affect the operation of several
Community policies. Provision will therefore need to be made at an appropriate moment., for the Community as such to become a party to the arrangements establishing the Commofi Fund.
For the reasons set out above, and having regard to the importance.of the
issues and the practice followed at the Conference on International Economic Cooperation, it is proposed that the Council should decide*
- that the Community position should be along the lines set out in the present Communication, both in discussiong with Group B/OECD partners and at the Negotiating Conference;
- that the Community and its Member States should participate in the Negotiating Conference as a single delegation, the spokesmen being the Presidency of the Council and the Commission, the Commission-
conducting negotiations for matters coming within Community competence.
