 Recommendation for a Council Regulation concerning the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Singapore on trade
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
1. By Decision of 19 October 1977 • "the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with Singapore with a view to the conclusion of an agreement on trade in textile products.
2 . In accordance with that Council Decision , and in consultation with the Article 113 Committee, the Commission conducted negotiations with Singapore from 19 'October to 15 December 1977.
Following the negotiations, a draft Agreement was drawn up.
The draft Agreement:
(i) covers all MPA products of wool, cotton and man-made fibres originating in Singapore ;
( ii ) call® for voluntary restraint , at agreed levels , on exports
to the Community of certain categories of products covered by the Agreement ;
(iii) provides for a consultation procedure whereby voluntary restraint measures may be introduced for categories of products not initially subject to limitation, where certain thresholds are exceeded;
(iv) establishes a double checking system for categories of products subject to limitation, and an origin control system for all categories covered
by the Agreement;
(v) includes a flexibility clause allowing the transfer of a certain percentage of the quotas from category to category, or from one year to another ;
( vi ) in exchange for limitation , contains an undertaking by the
Community not to introduce further quantitative restrictions under Article XIX of the GATT or Article 3 of the MPA, or to measures having an effect equivalent
The Heads or the Delegations initialled the text of the draft
Agreement on 15 December 1977, having noted that it correctly represented the results of the negotiations.
3. In order to ensure that the successful implementation of the Agreement should not he put at risk and to prevent a flood of exports preceding its entry irTto force , the Community, following the conclusion of the negotiations , proposed to the third countries that until such time as the Agreement entered into force both parties should apply its provisions on an autonomous basis
as from 1 January 1978* These provsions were put into effect for 1978 by Commission Regulation (EEC) N# 3019/77 of 30 December 1977? making the importation into the Community of textile products originating in certain third countries subject to authorisation and quantitative limitation (l), as confirmed by Council Regulation (EEC) N° 265/78 ot 7 February 1978 (2).
The Commission has laid before the Council & proposal for a regulation containing the definitive measures for the implementation of the Agreement
by the Community,
4. The Commission considers that the draft Agreement embodies an arrange­ ment which is acceptable to the Community. It therefore recommends that the Council :
(i) approve the Agreement by adopting the regulation, the draft of which is annexed hereto;
(ii) pending approval of the Agreement, take the neoessary desioions in connection with the signing thereof.
 Recommendation for a Council Regulation concerning the conclusion of the Agreement "between the European Eoonomic Community and the Republic of
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economio Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the Recommendation from the Commission,
Whereas the Agreement op trade in textile products negotiated "between the European Eoonomic Community and the Republic of Singapore should be approved,
Th3 Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Singapore on trade in textile products, the text of which is annexed to this Regulation, is hereby approved on behalf of the Community,
The President of the Council shall give the notification provided for in Article 16 of the Agreement.
The date of entry into force of the Agreement will be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and direotly appli­ cable in all Member States .
For the Council
The President
3. Quota year
8. Place and date of shlpient - eeans of transport Lieu et date d'abarqueaent - «oyen de transport
10. narks and nuabers-liusber and kind of padtages-CESCRI PTION OF G0G0S
I , the undcrsigned, certlfy that the goods descrlbed above have been chargod agalnst the quantitative liait est<icl ! shed for
the year shown in box No 3 in respect of the category shown in box No 4 by the provisions repjlatlng trade In textile products l'année indiquée dans la case No 3 pour la catégorie désignée dans la case No 4 dans le cadre des dispositions régissant les wlth the European Econosle Coaunity.
6. Country of orIgin Pays d'origine
9. Suppleaentary détails Données supplée#rrtalres
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
3 Quota year
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF G000S
11 Quantity (1) Quantité (1)
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated inThe country shown in box No B, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic
14 Compétent authority (name. full address, country)
'rtnud by WILHEIM KdHLER VtRLAG, 4950 Minden 1, Pottfach 1 130, Briickenkopt 2a - federal Republic of Germany
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
CERTIFICATE in regard to HANDLOOMS. TEXTILE HANDICRAFTS and TRA­ DITIONAL TEXTILE PRODUCTS. OF THE COTTAGE INDUSTRY, issued in conformity with and under the conditions regulating trade in textile products with the European Economic Community
I Vv<*. and nomûers – Number and kmd ol packages – DESCRIPTION OF GOOOS
9 Quantity Quantité
I cerr »y that the consignment described above includes only the following textile products of the cottage industry of the country shown in bo* No 4
8) f35"ps woven on looms operated solely by hand or toot (handiooms) (2)
b) jv^cts or other textile articles obta.ned manually from the fabrics described under a) and sewn solely by hand without the aid of any machine (handicrafts! (2l
c> vaj'tcnal foln'ore handicraft textile products made by hand, as defined m the list agreed between the European Economic Community and the country shown m bcx No 4
(s) Manfred Caspari
Tableau d«s équivalences I Table of équivalence I
Woven fabrics of cotton, other than gauze,
terry fabrics , narrow woven fabrics , chenille fabrics , net fabrics
pile other
of which other than unbleached or bleached
. Woven fabrics of synthetic fibres
or waste ) other than narrow
of* which other than- unbleached or bleached
Shirts , T-shirts , lightweight roll or turtle
neck pullovers , undervests and' the knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , other than babies ' . garments , of cotton or synthetic textile fibres
Shirts other than T-shirts Chandails , pull-overs , slip-^overs ,
cardigans , bed-jackets and jumpers , knitted
not elastic
Men 's and boys' woven
trousers (including slacks); women's, girls' and infants' woven trousers and slacks
twinsets , rubberised
breeches , shorts and
Blouses and shirt-blouses , knitted or crocheted (not elastic nor rubberised), or woven, for women, girls and infants
Men's and boys' shirts ,
Men 's and boys' coats of impregnated , coated , covered or laminated woven fabric " .
Gloves , mittens and mitts , knitted or
j crocheted not elastic nor rubberised, other
cotton terry fabrics ;
toilet and
kitchen linen of woven cotton terry fabrics
Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised , impre­
gnated or coated with artificial plastic materials
than those of category 10
Stockings', ' under stockings, socks, ankle->-# socks , sockettes and the like , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , other than women's stockings of synthetic textile fibres
Men's and boy' s underpants and briefs , women 's girls' and infants' (other than babies' ), knickers and briefs , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised, of cotton or synthetic textile fibres
Men's and
and other
than those of category 14 A
cloaks and capes , other
Women's, girls' and infants' coats of
impregnated , coated , covered or laminated woven fabric
Women's, girls' and infants' woven overcoats , raincoats and other coats ,
cloaks and capes , jackets and blazers , other than garments of category 15 A
Men'-s and boys' woven suits (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pièces, which are ordered, packed", consigned and normally sold together)
Ken's and boys' woven jackets and blazers
Men's and boys' woven under garments other than shirts. 4*
Tableaud«séquivalences I Table of aqulvalence j
Handkerchiefs of woven more than 15 EUA/kg
Yarn of discontinuous or waste regenerated . fibres, not put up for retail sale
and the
Yarn of discontinuous or waste synthetic fibres, not put up for retail sale
Ia), dont acrylique of which acrylic
UJMen'sandboys'pyjamas,knittedorcrocheted of cotton or of synthetic textile fibres . I
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than babies' ) knitted or crocheted pyjamas and nightdresses , of cotton or synthetic fibres
Women's. girls' and infants' (other than
bâties' ) woven ajid knitted or crocheted
1 Women's, girls* and infants', (other than babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted skirts , including divided skirts
Knitted or crocheted trousers (except shorts) other than babies'
Women's. girls' and, infants' (other than babies') woven suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pièces which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
Women's , girls' and and nightdresses
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than "babies' ) woven undergarments other than pyjamas and nightdresses
Brassieres , woven , knitted or crocheted
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of polyethylene or polypropylene , less than
3 m wide; woven sacks of such strip or thelike *
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of
polyethylene or polypropylene 3 m or more wide
Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics (other than terry fabrics of c.otton and
narrow woven fabrics)
Woven fabrics of synthetic textile fibres ( continuous ) , other than those for tyres
and those containing elastomeric yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (continuous) other than those for tyres and those containing elastomeric * yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile
fibres (discontinuous or waste) other than
narrow woven fabrics , pile fabrics ν
(including terry fabrics) and chenille fabrics
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Knitted or crocheted synthetic curtain fabrics including net curtain fabric
Woven table linen , toilet and kitchen linen other than of cotton terry fabric
Woven curtains (other than net curtains) and furnishing articles
Yarn of synthetic textile fibres (continuous) not put up for retail sale, other than non- textured single yarn untwisted or with a twist of not more than 50 turns per m
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres (continuous), not put up for retail salej*
other than single yarn of viscose rayon untwisted ar with a twis' of not more than
250 turns' per m'and single non-textured yeifn of any acetate
Tableau <ks équivalences Table of «Quivalence
Yarn of man-made fibres ( cont inuous ) ' put up for retail sale
■even fabrics of synthetic textile fibres k continuous ), containing elastomeric yarn
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (continuous), containing elastomeric yarn
Woven fabrics of sheep's or lamb's wool or of fine animal hair
lYarn of sheep's or lamb's wool or of fine animal hair,' put up for retail sale
Carded or combed sheep's or lamb's wool or other fine animal hair
non Yarn of carded sheep 's or lamb 's wool (woollen
yarn ) or of carded fine up for retail sale
Yarn, of
I (v/orsted yarn) or of combed fine animal hair, hiot put up for retail sale
Carpets, carpetting and rugs, knotted (made up or not)
Woven, knitted or crocheted carpets ,
carpeting , rugs , mats and matting , and ' Kelem "Schumacks" and "Karamanie" rugs and the like
.made up or not); floor coverings of felt
Coton cardé ou peigné . Carded or combed cotton
Reger.erated textile fibres (discontinuous or | waste), carded or combed
Synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded or combed
Yarn of 'synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sale
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sale ■'
Harrow woven fabrics not exceeding 30 cm in .
width with otherwise )
Tapestries, hand made
Tableau das équivalences Table of équivalence
the like ;
selvedges ( woven , gummed or
on both edges , other
made than woven
trimmings in the piece ;
tassels , pompons and
badges and the like , not
embroidered, . in the piece, in strips or eut te
gimped yarn (other than metallised yaj*n and ^imped horsehair yarn); braids ancï ornarnental
the like;
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including
woven, knitted or crocheted fabrics),
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including
woven, knitted or crocheted fabricr), figured ;
hand or mechanically made lace, in the piece, or in motifs ;
Embroiderj'", in the piece, in strips or in
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised , of synthetic textile fibres , containing elastofibres ; knitted or crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
Rachel lace and long-pile fabric (imitation fur ), knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , of synthetic textile fibres
Knitted or crocheted fabrics, not elastic nor
Table of équivalence
rubberised , other than 38 A," 63 and 64
of categories
Travelling rugs and blamcets
Clothing accessories and other articles (except garments), knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised; articles (other than
baLhing costumes ), of knitted or crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
Babies1 under garments of knitted or crocheted fabrics, not elastic nor rubberised
Women's girls * and infants' knitted or • crocheted petticoats and slips, of synthetic textile fibre, other than babies1 garments
Babies.' knitted outer garments
Track suits of knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than babies') suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three- pièces which are ordered, packed, consigned and normally sold together)
of knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised
Men's and boys' woven industrial and occupational clothing; women's, girls' and infants' woven aprons , smock-overalls and other industrial and occupational clothing (whether or not also suitable for domestic use)'
Women's stockings of synthetic textile fibre
Men's and boys' suits (including co­
ordinate suits consisting of two or three
pieces , which are ordered , packed ,
consigned and normally sold together) of
knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Men 's and boys'
wear and other
garments of categories 6, 14A, 14B, 16, 17, 21, 76 and 79
wbven bath robes , dressing jackets and similar indoor out ergarment s , except
Women 's , girls' and infants' woven bath robes , dressing gowns , bed jackets and similar. indoor wear and other outer garments except garments of categories 6, 7> 15A,
15B, 21, 26, 27, 29, 76, 79 and 80
Under garments , ether than babies' , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised ,
of woolf fine animal hair or regenerated textile fibres
Tableau dts équivalences Table of équivalence
Outer garments, knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , other than garments of categories 5» 7» 26, 27, 28, 71» 72, 73, 74 and 75
Shawls , scarves , mufflers , mantillas , and the like, other than knitted or crocheted
Ties , bow ties and cravats , knitted or crocheted
other than
Corsets, corset–belts, suspender–belts, braces , suspenders , garters and the like
(including such articles of knitted or crocheted fabric), other than brassieres, whether or not elastic
Gloves , mittens , mitts , and sockettes , not being crocheted goods
stockings , socks knitted or
Made up accessories for articles of apparel (for example, dress shields, shoulder and
other pads , belts , muffs , sleeve protectors , pockets), other than knitted or crocheted
Handkerchiefs of woven cotton fabric of a value of more than 15 EUA/Kg
J . Tableau d«s équivalences Table of équivalence .
ropes and
Woven fabrics of man-made textile fibres and rubberised textile woven fabrics, for tyres
Sacks and' "bags , 'of a kind used for the f packing of goods , of woven fabric , other than made from polyethylene or polypropylene strip
Wadding and articles of wadding ; flock and dust and mill neps
Pelt and articles of felt, whether or not
impregnated or coverings
coated ,
other than
Bonded fibre fabrics , similar bonded yarn fabrics , and' articles of such fabrics ,
whether or not impregnated or coated, other than clothing and clothing accessories
| prepared painting canvas ; buckram and similar fabrics for hat foundations and similar uses
Textile fabrics impregnated , coated , cj' ered or laminated wvth préparations of cellulose ierivatives or 0 " other artificial plastic materials
Nets and netting made of twine, cordage or
fishing nets of avec des fils ,
rope , and made up cordage or rope
Other articles:,mâde"from yarn,twine, cordage,
rope or-cables,- other thaîi textile fabriç^, articles made from such fabrics and articles
of category 97 I
Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous
substances, of a kind used for the outer covers of books and the like ; tracing cloth;
Twine , cordage ropes and cables , plaited or not, other than of synthetic textile fibres
Linoleum and materials prepared on a textile base in a similar "'inner to linoleum,whether or not cut to shape or of a kind used as floor coverings ; floor coverings consisting of a coating applied on a textile base, cut to shape or not
Rubberised textile fabrics other than rubberised knitted or crocheted goods , excluding fabrics for tyres
Textile fabrics , impregnated or coated ,
thsji those of categories 99 > 100 , 102 and
103 ; painted canvas being theatrical scenery, studio backcloths or the like
Elastic knitted textile threads
fabrics and trimmings (other than or crocheted goods) consisting of materials combined with rubber
Wicks, of woven, plaited or knitted textile materials , for lamps , stoves , lighters , . candles and the like ; tubular knitted gas-mantle fabric and incandescent gas mantles _
othei
Woven tarpaulins , sails, awings
and sunblinds
Textile hosepiping and. similar tubing , with or v/ithout lining, armour or accessories of other materials
Transmission , conveyor or elevator belts or belting , of textile material , whether or
not strengthened with metal or other material
Camping. gopdsv woven, other than pneumatic mattresses and tents ' '
Other made-up textile articles , woven, excluding those of categories 113 and 114
Floor cloths , dish cloths , dusters and the like other than knitted or crocheted
Textile fabrics and textile articles of a kind commonly used in machinery- or. plant
' . n<K ami "iate 'A ihipsunt - reans of trcr.soort Li*-, nt (fat:! ^'ftf;arJUi>"icnt - I'oysn oe transport
Quota year
5 . iv snJ and '-Inc. of pacfcsja'-i'EiJi/'l /TI'. ,i ' F J703
y •# J, «n if , oi *:o 3 ir. ruv-L'ct of the. catu;ory aiown in bo* '« * by the proviilans rtjulatii^ trim. »'i ii*;»le i-.r .<■ . t
6. Count'y of cri gin Pays. o'origlne
5. SuK'lementary détails Confies supol/cwntaircs
7. Country of .. '.tlrj ",. n pay. Oc -J-.-1in3*i n '
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in The country shown in box No 6. in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic
14 Compétent authority (name. full address, country)
'rimtd by WILHCLM kOhiER VERIAG. 4950 Minden 1. Postfach 1130. Briickenkopf 2a - federal Republic of Germany
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
CERTIFICATE in regard to MANDLOOMS. TEXTILE HANDICRAFTS and TO*. OITIONAt TEXTILE PRODUCTS. OF THE COTTAGE INDUSTRY. Issued .n conformity with and under the conditions regulating trade in textile products with the European Economic Community
8 Vrt *. flutters – Number and kind of packages – OfcSCRlPHON Of GOOOS
9 Ouantity Quantité
ivr'i'jie ;, zt~ *y t*sat the cons jnnent described above incudes only the following textile products of the cottage industry of the country shown HI bci No 4 m
wivw an i3:"s cr?r3*e(J scic'y by hand or toot (hanii'ooTis) (2> •
#) or teii'ie articles obtained manually from the fabrics described under a) and sewn solely by hand without the aid of any machine (handicrafts* (7i
C< * •'J tcr.il fo:«'ore handicraft textile products made by hand, as defined m the list agreed between the European Economic Community and the country shown .n bci No 4
Director Department of Trade Head of Singapore Textiles Negotiation Delegation
Manfred CASPARI
•und 75
Warenbotoichnuiijr
' . Pl-tcc and date J shlpcunt - reans of trcr.soort LI-. fit ddta *,*£ar'JM"icnt - roysn oe transport
J# Quota year
l,it.*..- 1r.-t i ;nt<i( certify at the gooos ccscrlicC a.'.nv<! have been cfiarged against the Quantitative 1i=.it
1 Ji> *"» ir ; o.i '.o 3 ir. reyect of the catu;Try jhonn in bo* '<c * by the provisions rtgulatiiK. trjiy; 'i
6. Count<7 of crigin Pays o'origine
5. Suptlementary détails Donnes supoîiftwntalrcs
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
11 Quantity (1) Quantité (1)
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in 1he country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economie Community.
Priated bv WILHEIM KuHLER VERLA6. 4950 MlAdM I. Postfach 1 130, Bruckenkopf 2a – Federal Republic. of Germany
CERTIFICATE in regard to HANDLOOMS. TEXTILE HANDICRAFTS and TPA OITIONAL TEXTILE PRODUCTS. OF THE COTTAGE INDUSTRY, issued .n conformity with and under the conditions regulating trad* in teitiie products with the European Economic Community
4 Country of or.gin Pays d'origine
I Vvki nu^Sers – Numùer Md kmd of package* – OESCRlPHON Or GOODS
9 Ouantity Quantité
I gtf;. ce" > fiat l»»e consignment described ahove includes only the following textile products of the cottage industry of the country shown m boi No 4
t) MS-!-.! wonir an 'a:"-? c;era:?tf sce'v by hand or toot (hand'ooms) (2)
5) jvfts or cPer ie»|iie articles obta.ned manually from the fabrics described under a) and sewn solely by hand without the aid of any machine (handicrafts' (?)
e» to^'ore handicraft fertile products made by hand, as defined in the list agreed between the European Economic Community and the country shown >n bci No 4
'2 Car;»!?-'. a;:i3'ity (nama. tull idlriss. country) Ajtyté cam;etente (nom. at'nu con^èia. pays)
Sig. Manfred CASPARI
U97S a 979 19?0 issi
J. Quota year
. ?licc and <!atc -A shtpri.'nt - reans of trsr.soort Li-, fit data j,Tt.,ar:^'ncf>t - vcyen ce transport
6. Count»7 of cri gin Pays d'origine
7. Country of *.
t,itr..' «iut i ;«•.), cltMfy : at th> (jooos ooscrligc al.nv.! havft been charged agJnst the Quantitative lis.it -"-i... .•
!■« y •* *..•?» if ,w 'o 3 in rev-cot of the catujiry Jhonn in bo* -'io 4 by the provi-lons rtgulatirt-. tr.ju<. 'n tmilc rr
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages
MiW by WILHEIM KoHLER VERLAfi, 4950 MIIUIM 1, Poitfich 1130, Bruckankopf 2a – faderal Republic ol (firmany
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
11 Quantity (1) Quantité (1)
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economic Community.
6 Vrk-. J"3 miPiï'S – Number and kind ol packages – DESCRIPTION OF G000S
9 Quantity ' Quantité
11 CE-'^A'CN BV T*E COMPETENT AUTHORITY - VISA OE L'AUTORITE COMPETENTE I.'"ii-wjt*;.ce"*ythattheconsignmentdescribedaboveincludesonlythefollowingtextileproductsofthecottageindustryofthecountryshowninDotNo4
' a) wivsr jn !o;ms cceratetf so'ely 3y hand or toot (hanijiooms) (2)
b) :vris or ether t*«we articles obta.ned manually from the fabrics described under a) and sewn solely by hand without the aid of my machine (handicrafts' (7)
e* "H ' cnal foi«'ore handicraft textile products made by hand, as defined in the list agreed between the European Economic Community and the country shown >n bci No 4
CERTIFICAT! in regard to HANDLOOMS. TEXTILE HANDICRAFTS and IRA OITIONAL TEXTILE PRODUCTS. OF THE COTTAGE INOUSTRY. Issued <n conformlty with and undrr the conditions regulating Irad* in te*tit» productS «rlth the European Economie Community
4 Counlry ol ongin Pays -dorigine
5 Country of Ccatmjt:on Pairs de destination
Manfred Caspari
binding, bad- of frotteerstof (lussen-
Bad- of
( lussendoek ) frotteerstof
baby 's )
baby 's ),
uit­ (bad- of frotfeerstof inbegrepen) en chenille
of in
of pitten
f ti
o* tho on© part, and '
TICS COVAC.NARR OF THE REPUBLIC OP SINGAPORE, of the other part,. 1
RECOGNISING the importance of trade in textile products between the
IXiropoan Economic Community (horeirlafter.referred to as the "Coirranity")j unlSingapore, ,' ; . ■: .:'
HAVilla REGA1ID to the Arrangement regarding International Trade in Textiles (hereinafter referred to as "tho Geneva Arrangement"), and in particular
Article 4 theroofj and to the conditions Bet out in the Protocol, extendii\; the Arrangement together with the Conclusions adopted on 14 December 1977 by"the Textiles Conmitteo, (L/46I6),
HAVE DECIDED to conclude this Ajreemen*. and to this end have designated as >■,,
their Plenipotentiaries. ; 1 1
1, The partiob reoogaize and oonfira that, eubjeot to the provisions of this Agreqitient and without prejudice to t"heir rights and obligations under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the conduot of their mutual trade in textile produots shall be governed by the provisions of the Geneva Arrangement* *
2• In respeot of the products covered by this Agreement, the Community undertakes not to introduce quantitative restrictions under Article XIX of
the General Agreement on Tariffs and TVade or Artiole 3 of the Geneva Arrangement •
3« Measures having equivalent effect to quantitative restrictions on the importation into the Community of the products oovered by this Agreement shall be prohibited*
This Agreement shall apply to trada in textile products of cotton, wool and man-made fibres originating in Singapore which "
are listed in Annex I*
2, The description and identification of the produots covered by this Agreement are tyaaed on the nomenclature of the Common Customs Tariff and
on the Nomenclature of Goods for the External Trade Statistics of the .
Community aod Statistios of Trade between Member StateB (BTMSCE),
3* The origin of the produots oovered by this Agreement shall be deter­ mined in tf.ooordLanoe with the rulea in force lb the Community,
Ihe prooedures for oontrql of the origin of the produots referred to above are laid down in Protoool A«
Singapore agrees to restrain its exports to the Coirfminity of the products described in Annex II to the limits set out therein for each Agreement year.
Exports of textile products Bet out in Annex II shall be subject to a double-checking system specified in Protocol A.
1. Exports of cottagu industry fabrics woven on hand- or foot- operat<i<Ji looms, garments of other articles obtained manually from such fabrics and traditional folklore handicraft products shall not be eubjed, to quantitative limits, provided these products meet the coi;,diti<pa laid down in Protocol p.
2. Exports to the Community of textile products covered by this Agreement shall not be subject to the quantitative limits established
in Annea; II , provided that the export certificate certifies that the pro ducts concerned are for re-oxport outside the Community in the 6ame state or after prooessing . .
3. Where the competent authorities in the Community ascertain that products exported from Singapore and set off by Singapore a"ainst a quantitative limit established in Annex II have been subsequently re-exported outside the Community, the authorities concerned shall notify Singapore within four weeks of the quantities involved. Upon receipt of such notification , Singapore may authorize exports of identical quantities of products, within the came category, which shall not be set off againsx the quantitative limits established in Annex IJ for the current or the following Agreement year.
1. In any Agreement year advance ttoe of a portion of the quantitative limit e&tabll.Hhed for the following. Agreement year is authorial for eacto
category of j»,*oduots up to 5 ^ Of the ffuantitaiive- lisit for the current ' Agreement ye<|ar«
Amount delivered in advance shall b# deduoted from th<> correspon­ ding quantitative limits established fipr th* following Agreement year.
2• Carryover to the corresponding' quantitative limit for the following Agreement year of amounts not used during atfgr Agreement year in authorized
up to 5 $ of the quantitative limit for the current Agreement year,
3. Transfers in respect of categories irt Group I shall not be made from any category except as follows *
- transfers between Categories 1, 2 and 3 nay be effected up to 5 $ of the quantitative limits for the category to which the transfer is made except that in the case of Category 1 the parties acknow­ ledge that the transfer of 5 Jo has already been incorporated in the quantitative limit for Category 1 set out in Annex lit
- transfers between Categories 4» 5» 6. 7 end 8 may be made up to
5 io of the quantitative limit for the category to which the trans- fer is made.
Transfers into any category in Grortps II , III , 17 and V may bd made from any category or categories in Croups I * II# III , IV and V up to 5 $ of the quantitative limit for the category to which the transfer its made.
4* The table of equivalence applicable to the transfers referred to
aiove. is givftn in Annex I to this Agreement* I . .»
5. The increase in any category of product* resulting from the
cumulative application of the provisions in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above during an Agreement year shall not exceed 15
6. Prior notification shall be given by the authorities of Singapore in the .event of reoourse to the provisions of paragraphs 1,2 and 3 above.
Exports of textile products not liotod in Annex II to thin
Agreement nry bo p?do subject to cuantitativo limits by Singapore on the conditions laid down in the following paragraphs.
2/ toore the Connrinity finds, under tho system of administrative control net up, that the lovel of imports of products in & given category
not lirtod in ji:inc:c II orifrin*vting in Singapore exceeds, in relation to tho preceding year's total imports into the Community of
pro&rcts in th~.t category, the following r.vtfls t h
- for oategorio3 of products in Crovip I, 0.2/%;
- for categories of products in Croup 11,1,2
- for categories of products in Croup III, IV or V, 4
it mey request the opening of consultations in accordance with the procedure
described in Article 13 of this Agreement , i/ith a view to roachlng o,treemont on ~si nporspri.f.te restraint level for the products in r.\ich category.
undertakes, f;pom the date of notification of the request for consultations,
to suspend or Limit at tho level indicated by.the Community in the said notification exports of the category of products in question to the Community or to th« region or regions of the Community market specified by the Community.
! "onryinity shall authorize tho importation of products of the
3'i.d category shipped from Singapore before the date on which the rcrjMCct for consultations w~r. submitted.
4. 3hov.ld the Parties be unable in the course of consultations to reach » satisfactory solution within the period specified in Article 13 o !* the Agreement, tho Community shall have the right to introduce a cruantitative linit ct an rnnual level not lower than the.t rocched by imports of the category in ouestion end roforrcd to in the notification of tho rcmioot for consultations.
 The annual level BO fixed shall bi» revised upwards after consultations in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article with a view to fulfilling the conditions set out in paragraph 2, should the tr'lnd of total imports into the Community of tho product in question make this necessary.
5. The limits introduced under paragraph 2 or paragraph 4 may in no case be lower than the level of imports of products in that category originating in Singapore in 1976.
Quantitative limits may also be established by the Community on a
regional basis in accordance with the provisions of Protocol C.
this Article shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Protocol D.
C. The provisions of this Article shall not apply where the percentages specified in paragraph 2 have been reached as a result of fall in total imports into the Community, and not as a result of an increase in exports of products originating in Singapore.
9. In the event Gf the provisions of paragraph 2 or paragraph 4 being >
applied, Singapore undertakes to issue export certificates for products covered by contracts concluded before the introduction of the quantitative
limit, up to tho volume of the quantitative limit fixed for the current year. *
10. . For the purpoee of applying the provisions of paragraph 2, the
Community undertakes to provide the Singapore authorities, before 31 March
of each year, with the preceding year's statistics on imports of all textile ?
products covered by this Agreement, broken down by supplying country and *
Community Member State#
11 . The provisions of this Agreement which conoern exports of products subject to the quantitative limits established in Annex II shall also apply to products for &hich quantitative limits are introduced under this Article.
The annual growth rate for the quantitative limits introduced under
Section IT t Administration of the Agreement
1, Singapore undertakes to supply the Community with precise 1
statistical information on all export certificates issued "by the Singapore authorities for all categories of textile products subject to the quantitative* limits set out in Annex II*
The Community shall Ukewisq supply the Singapore authorities
with pjreoise statistical information on import authorization# or
,'<1ocumo,rt:: by tho Community author *. Ilea , o.nd import ntf.tinticr. for oroducln -covered by the oyotenn or adi.ilnirtrr.tive control referred to in Article M2*'.
3# The infomitlon referred to r.bovo shall, for nil categories cf
"• orodvictn, be supplied "before the end of th'b seoond month following the k cu~-rter to which tho statistics relate .
/J. Should it he foun'. on ;'n?ly:i\.- o'.* tno information exchanged th.vt , thore are si^m flcant discrepancies between the returns for exports rnd
those for imnorts , ^c. ..ivl ii+ion-. m?\y be initiated in accordance *ri.th tho i
j procedure ane^iriftc' in Art Isle 1 3 of tl :v.j A-'jreement .
j Any such consultation shall "be resolved on the "basis of the 3
^agreed descriptions of the products contained in Annex I. !
Any amendment to the Cootpon Customs Tariff or Kimexe; ioade in
accordance with the procedures in force in th<J Community, concerning categories of products covered by tkis Ag^eemant or any decision
relating to the classification of goods shall not hav^ tho effect of reducing any guantitat ve limit established irl Annex II*
Siji^japore shall endeavour to ensure that exports of textile products subject to cjuantitative limits are spaced out as evenly as
possible pver the year, due account being taken, in particular, of seasqmal factors.
Hoover, should reooarBe be had to the provisions of Artiole 1&(3)»
*he quantitative limits established in Annex JI shall be reduced on a pro ratabasis.
If the Community ascertains that there is a sharp and substantial increase in the concentration of imports, other than
a concentration attributable to normal seasonal factors, of pao>- ticular products in any one category subject to quantitative limits
established in Annex II, the Community may request consultations in accordance with the procedure specified in Artiole 13 of this Agreement Kith a view to remedying this situation*
1« Portions or the quantitative liinilts established in Annex II not = used in a JHamter State of the Community nuiy be allocated to another
Member State in accordance with the prooeclures in force in the Communi- ty# Additii?i;ially, Singapore may request that such portions of the limits for particular Member States be reallocated to other Member States. The Community phall respond within 4 weeks of receipt of any such request.
It is understood that any reallocation so effected shall not be subject to the limits fixed under the flexibility provisions set out in Artiole 5 of this Agreement.
2. Should it appear in any given region of the Community that ; additional supplies are required , the Community mayr where measures
taken pursuant to paragraph 1 above are inadequate to cover those requirements, authorize the importation of amounts greater than those stipulated in Annex II*
Singapore and tho Community undertake to refirain from discrimination in the allocation of export certificates and import authorizations or
2» InimplementingthisAgreement,theContractingRstrtietfshalltake oare to maintain the traditional commercial praotices and trade flows between the Community and Singapore*
1. lhe special consultation procedures referred to in this Agreement shall be governed by the following rules i
- any jrequest for consultations shall be notified In writing to the other Varty
– the Request for consultations shall be followed within a reasonable period (and in any case not later than fifteen days following the notification) by a statement setting out the reasons and circums­ tances which, in the opinion of the requesting F^rty, justify the submission of such a request;
•• the Parties shall enter into consultations within one month at the latest of notification of the request, with a view to reaching
agreement or a mutually acceptable Conclusion within ohe further month at the latest*
If necessary, at the request of either of the Forties and in con­ Agreement* <lnyconsultationsheldunderthisArtiolefehallbeapproached
by both Parties in a spirit of cooperation And with a deaire to reconcile the difference between them.
formity with the provisions of the Geneva Arrangement, consultations
shall be held on any problems arising from the application of Ihis
1, The provisions of this Agreement shall not apply to imports of products subjeot to quantitative limits in 1977» provided such produots are shipped before 1 January 1978.
2. Products originating in Singapore whioh become subject to quantitative • limits from 1 January 1978 only, in pursuance of this Agreement, may be
imported into the Community without the production of an export certificate until 31 Ma.pch 1978, provided auch products are shipped before 1 January 1978.
This Agreement shall apply to the territories within which the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community is applied and under Jjhe conditions laid down in that Treaty on the one hand, and to the territory of Singapore on the other hand#
1. This Agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the date on which the Contracting Parties notify each other of the completion of the procedures necessary for this purpose. It shall be applicable until 31 December 1982*
2. Th^s Agreement shall apply with effect from 1 January 1978.
3. Either Party may at any time propose modifications to this
Agreement or denounce it provided that at least ninety days* notice is given. . In th$, latter event the Agreement shall come to.an end on the expiry of the period of notioe.
4. Thu Anr.ejces and Protocols 1(o this Agreement and the Exchange - of Letters etiall form an integral part thereof.
Thi3 Agreement shall be drawn up in two copies in the Danish,
Dutch, r^-jlieh, FVcnch, German and Italian languages, each
of theoo texts being tequally authentic.
Th« conipetent authorities of Singapore shall issue an export certificate in respect of aLl consignments from Singapore of textile products referred to if> Annex. II, up to the relevant quantitative limits as may be modified by
Articles 5 and 11 of the Agreement. Article 2
The export certificate shall conform to the model annexed to this Protocol . It must certify , inter alia , that the quantity of the product in '
Question has been set off against the quantitative limit prescribed for the v category of the product in question.
? The competent Community authorities most be notified forthwith of the withdrawal or alteration of any export certificate already issued.
Exports shall be set off against the quantitative limits established
for the year in which shipment of the goods has been effected, even if the export certificate is issued after such shipment.
Importation into the Community of textile products subject to quanti­ tative limits shall be subject to the presentation of an import authorization or document.
The competent Community authorities shall issue such import authorization or document automatically within fjive working 'days of the presentation by the
importer of certified copy of the corresponding export certificate The import authorization or document shall be valid for six months.
If the competent Community authorities find that the total quantities
covered by export certificates issued by Singapore for a particular category in any Acreeni^nt year exceeds the quantitative limit established in Annex II
fqr that category, as may be modified by Article ,5 and 11 of the Agreement/ the said authorities may suspend the further issue of import
authorizations or documents. In this event , the competent Community autho­ rities shall immediately inform the authorities of Singapore and the special consultation procedure, set out in Article 13 of the Agreement shall be initiated forthwith .
' Tho competent Community authorities may refuse to issue import authorisations or
documents in respect of exports of Singapore origin not covered by Singapore export certificates issued under the provisions of this Protocol.
* However, if the imports of 6uch products are allowed into the Community tfy the competent Community authorities, the quantities involved shall not be sot off against tho appropriate lihiits set out in Annex II without the express agreement of Singapore.
accordance with the arrangements established by this Agreement shall be accompanied by a certificate of Singapore origin conforming to the model wnfexed to thio protocol .
Products; originating in Singapore for export to the Community in
The certificate of origin shall be issued by the competent governmental
•uthoritif.y of Singapore " the products in question can be considered pro­
•l'lctrs originating iri that country within the meaning of the relevant ruleo *
m force- in the Community * π
3. , However , the products in Croupa III , IV -and V may be imported into
the Community in accordahco with the arrangements established by this I
Agreement on production of a declaration by the exporter on the invoice' or oihcr commercial document to the effect that tho products in question originate- j.n Sipgapore within the meaning of tho relevant rules in forco in the Community#
T;10 discovery of slight discrepancies between the e*tatenentn made
in th.p oe.ptificate of origin and those made in the documents produced to the cu?tonsoffice for the purpose of carrying out the formalities for Importing; the product shall not ipao facto cast doubt upon .the sta­ tements i;;i the certificate.
1, Subsequent verification of certificates of origin shall be
carried out r.t random, or whenever the competent Community authorities have reasonable doubt as to the authenticity of the certificate or as to the accuracy of the information regarding the true origin of the products in question*
In such cases the competent authorities in the Community shall
return the certificate of origin or a copy thereof to the competent
governmentalauthorityinSingapore,giving, whereappropriate,thereasons offormorsubstanceforanenquiry. Iftheinvoicehasbeensubmitted,
ouch invoice or a copy thereof shall be attached to the certificate or its copy. The auchorities shall also forward any information that
hna leer, obtained suggesting that the particulars given on the said certificate are inaccurate,
2, llj'B provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be applicable to subc«qucr,1i vmrifioationB of the declarations of origin referred to
in Artioltj 8 (3) of this Protocol.
3, results of the subsequent verifications carried out
in acsordiwioe with paragraphs 1 and 2 above shall be communicated to
tho competent authorities of the Community within three months at the latest.
Should such verifications reveal systematic irregularities in the use of declarations of origin, the Community may subject imports
of the products in question to the provisions of Article 8 (l) and (2) of
this Protocol,
 4. For the purpose of subsequent verification of certificates of origin, copies of the certificates as well as any export documents referring to thorn i-.hall be kept for at least two years by the competent governmental authority in Singapore .
*. Hecourso to tho random verification procedure specified in this Artinle must not constitute an obstacle to tho release for home use of th6 products in question *
The provisions of thia Title shal* not apply to goods covered by (i certificate of origin Form A completed in accordance with the relevant Cownunity ri,,lc3 in order to qualify for generalized tariff preferences.
Title III : Form and production of export certificates and certificates of origin, and
additional copies duly indicated as such. They shall be made out :Ln English
or French. If thoy are completed by hand, -entries must be in ink and in
Thes'- documents shall measure 210 x 297 tan* The paper used must be v.iate -izsd writing puper not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 25 g/rS*
Sach doovjnfem shall bear a atrial number, whether or not pointed,
b// which it can ie identified.
The ';xport certificate and the certificate of origin may oomprise
o 'the export licence and -the certificate of origin may be issued after the shipment of the products to which they relate. In such
leases they ahall beau? either tfce endorsement "delivre a posteriori" or tho endorsement "issued retrospectively"®
In the event of theft, loos or destruction of an export certificate or a certificate of origin, the exporter may apply to the competent 'governmental authority which issued the document for a duplicate to
be made out on the basis of the export documents in his possession.
The replacement certificate so issued shall bear the endorsement "duplicata".
The duplicate roust bear the date of the original export certificate or certificate of origin.
The competent governmental authorities in Singapore shall
satisfy themselves that the goods exported correspond to the statement!! given in tho export certificate and certificate of origin.
Singapore shall send the Commission of the European Communities the names and addresses of the governmental authorities competent to
issue export certificates and certificates of origin, together with specimens of stamps used by these authorities*
3. Quota year
f'l tco and date -J shipment - reans of trar.soort Li*-, fit data ii,or..fc.a'-juincnt - t'oyen oe transport
l,st.k.j in.:-r i jnw, certify : at the goous ccscriieo a!,ova have been charged against the Quantitative 1is.it •'"ui
yar v. -n ir ; o.-. 'io 3 ir, rey.ect of the cak-jory àiown in box :<o * by the provi .lune rtgulótir». tr-ju.; <•: t. x;i le f:r
5. Country of origin Pays, o'origine
5. Sutf'lementary détails Donrces suuol'nentaircs
7. Conn)r/ of c '.tln;(;•ti pay- do d:;tinaM n
j 4. Categnry fia
•S. Place and daie of intiment - céans of transport Liau et jate d' er-oarauement - moyen de transport
lO.faris and rawbers - Rusiber and kind of paeka}^ • ivEZR' / JON OF GOODS
13. C£STIF| CATION 2Y THE CEMCTtM AUTOITY - 1\'J. \>i L'AUT'jRI It COflPETEKTE
1 / the undersigned, certify tnat tte c-mds described above are originating in the country shown in box No 6 » with the provisions in force in the Community.
 Tho exemption provided for in the firat paragraph of Article 4 of tho Aflrooment in reopect of cottage industry products shall apply only to
the following products :
») textilefabricswpvenonIOOQSoperatedsolelybyhandor foot, being fabric,? of a kind traditionally made irt the cottage industry of Singapore;
b) garmentsorothertextilearticlesofakindtraditionally Made in the cottag* industry of ttin^npore t obtained manually from the fabrios described above and Sown solely by hand without fhe aid of any machinej
traditional folklore handicraft textile produots of Singapore made by hand in the cottage industry of Singapore
as defined in a lipt of puch products to be agreed between the two parties.
Exemption shall apply only in respect of products covered by a certificate issued by the competent authorities of Singapore conforming to'thespecimenannexedtothisprotocol. Suchcertificatesshallindicate the grounds on which exemption is based and shall be accepted by the compe­ tent Community authorities provided that they are satisfied that the products concernedconformtotheconditionssetoutinthisProtocol, Shouldimports of any of the above products reaph such proportions as to cause difficulties . to the Comnrunity, tho two Partieis ehalj open consultations forthwith in accor­ dance Witri the procedure laid dotm in Artiole 13 of the Agreement with a view to finding a auaatitativ® solution to the problem.
CERTIFICATE in regard to HAHLCCi'lS, TEXTILE HANDICRAFTS and TRA­ DITIONAL TEXTILE PRODUCTS, OF THE COTTAGE INDUSTRY, Issued in conformity with and under tho conditions regulating trade in te> tile products with the Eiropean Economic Conmmiiy
shipiaent - tieans of transport
4 Coantry of orIgin Pays d' origine
9 Quant ity 10 F03 Value(l Quantité Val eir FOBfl
5 Place anj date of
Z ,'crk3 and nitùbers - Kinber and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GÛCDS
I, the undirsignod, certify that the consignment described above includes only the following textile products of the cottage industry of tho couitry shown in box Mo 4 :
a) fabrics woven on looms operated solely by hand or foot (handloor.s) (2)
b) garments or other textile articles obtained manually froa the fabrics described irder a) and sewn solely by hand without
the aid of any machine (handicrafts) (2)
c) tradi tiornjl folklore handicraft textile prodxts made by hand, es defined in the list agreed between the Etropsan Econo­
mic Corininity and the coirtry shown in box f.'o 4.
 In accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 4 of ArtieLo 6 of the Agreement, a quantitative limit may be fixed on- a regional "basis where imports of a given product into any region of the Comrauiuty exceed, in relation to the amounts determined in accordance with paragraph 2 of the said Article 6, the following regional per­ centages :
Germany Jienelux France Italy Denmark Ireland
In accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 4 of Article 6 of the Agreement, a quantitative limit may be fixed on a regional "basis where imports of a givein product into any region of the Community exceed, in relation to the amounts determined in accordance with paragraph 2 of the eoid Artiole 6t the following regional per­ centages t
concerning AlHi.de 2 ( 3 ) of the Apfteefnent
The Community declares that, in accordance with the CotnmuMty rules on origin referred to in Article 2 (3) ol." the Agreement, an,y ancndmcnts to the said rules will remain based upon criteria not
rt quiring , in order to confer originating status , more extensive operations than thoco which constitute a single complete process*
rbr the Europeart Eoonomlrt Consmunity,
Ple&fte refdf to the Agreement "between the European Economic* Communities and tfrA Republic of Siftgapor# on trade in tertil* pro– ducts initialled between the two parties on 15 December 31977^
$jr v&y of c? rogation from /Lrticleis 2 and 8 of Protocol A,
the Comaanity undertakes to issue import authorizations or documents without the production of an export certificate or certificate of origin in the form prescribed in Jhe said Article 8 for' products originating in Singapore subject to quantitative limits under thiB Agreement, provided such products are shipped in the period from
1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978 and do not exceed 40 % of the quantitative limits applicable to the products. This period may be extended by agreement reached between the Parties in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 13 of this Agreement .
Director Department of Trade Head of Singapore Textiles Negotiation Delegation
 The Community Bhall eupply the Singapore authorities without delay with preoise statistical information on import authorizations or documents issued under this Article; thrt said authorities shall set the corresponding amounts off against 1ihe quantitative limits established ih Anne# II for the products in question for 1978*
I should this letter
grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of
Manfred Caspari
Head of the Delegation of the European Economic Communities
I hereby confirm receipt of the following letter :
"Please refer to the Agreement "between the European Economic Communities and the Republic of Singapore on trade in textile products initialled between the two Parties on 15 December 1977*
By way of derogation from Articles 2 and 8 of Protocol A, the Community undertakes to issue import authorizations or docuaenta without the production of an export certificate or certificate of origin in the fprm prescribed in the said Article 8 for products originating in Singapore subject to quantitative limits under this Agreement, provided such pro­ ducts at* shipped in the period from 1 January 1978 to 31 March 1978 and do not exceed 40 % of the quantitative limits ap­ plicable to the products. This period may be extended by agreement reached between the Parties in accordance with
the procedure laid down izi Article 13 of this Agreement,
Mr Manfred Caspari
Head of the Delegation of the European Economic Communities
 The Community shall supply the Singapore authorities without delay with precise statistical information on import authorization or documents issued under this Article; the said authorities shall set the corresponding amounts off against the quantitative limits, established in Annex II for the products in question for 1978.
I should "be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter".
Director Department of Trade Head of Singapore Textiles Negotiation Delegation
The Mission of the Republic of Singapore to the European Communities presents its compliments to the Directorate General for External Relations of the Commission of the European Com­ munities arid has the honour to refer to the Agreement in textile products negotiated between Singapore and the Community initialled oil. 15 liecember 1977*
The Mission wishes to inform the Directorate General that whilst awaiting the completion of the necessary procedures for
the conclusion and the coming into force of the Agreement, the Government of the Republic of Singapore is prepared to allow the provisions of the Agreement to apply de facto from 1st January 1978 if the Community is disposed to do likewise *
The Mission would be grateful if the Community would confirm its agreement to the foregoing.
The Mission would like also to propose that the present note and the Community 's note in reply shall constitute an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Singapore and the Community.
The Mission of the Republic of Singapore to the European
Economic Communities avails itself of this opportunity to .-«ν
renew to the Directorate General for External Relations the aesurance of its highest consideration.
 The Directorate General for External Relations of the Commission presents its compliments to the Minister for the Mission of the Republic of Singapore with the European Communities and has the honour to refer to the Mission's Note of today
reading as follows :
"The Mission of the Republic of Singapore to the European ' Communities presents its compliments to the Directorate General for External Relations of the Commission of the European Com­ munities And has the honour to refer to the Agreement in textile products negotiated between Singapore and the Community initialled on 15 December 1977*
The Mission wishes to inform the Directorate General that whilst awaiting the complotion of the necessary procedures for
the conclusion and the coming into force of the Agreement, the Government of the Republic of Singapore is prepared to allow the provisions of the Agreement to apply de facto from 1st January 197$ if th? Community is disposed to do likewise.
The Mission would be grateful if the Community would confirm its agreement to the foregoing.
The Mission would like also to propose that the present note and the Community's note in reply shall constitute an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Singapore and the Community.
The Mission of the Republic of Singapore to the European Economic Communities avails itself of this opportunity to
renew to the Directorate General for External Relations the
assurance of its highest consideration'!
The Directorate of External Relations has the honour to confirm tc the Minister that it is agreed on the content of the
foregoing Note and considers therefore that the exchange of Notes constitutes an agreement between the Government of Singapore
and the Community
 The Directorate General for External Relations avails itself of this opportunity to renew to the Mission of the Republic of Singapore with the European Communities the a.ssuranoe of its highest consideration.
Woven fabrics of cotton, other than gauze, terry fabrics, narrow woven fabrics, pile
fabrics, chenille fabrics, tulle and other net fabrics
of which other than unbleached or bleached
56.07-05 of which other than- unbleached or 56.07-07 bleached 56.07-08
56.07-11 'Woven fabrics of synthetic fibres 56.07-13 (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow 56.07-14
woven fabrics, pile fabrics (including terry 56.07-16 .. fabrics) and chenille fabrics 56.07-17 56.07-18 56.07-21 56.07-23 56.07-24 56.07-26 56.07-27 56.07-28 56.07-32
Shirts , T-shirts , lightweight roll or turtle neck pullovers , undervests and' the like , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , other than babies' garments ,
of cotton or synthetic textile fibres
Shirts other than T-shirts Chandails , pull-overs , slip-overs ,
twmsets ,
cardigans , bed-jackets and jumpers , knitted
twinsets , rubberised
Men 's and boys' woven breeches , shorts and
girls' and infants' woven trousers and slacks
Blouses and shirt-blouses , knitted or crocheted (not elastic nor rubberised), or woven, for women, girls and infants
Hen's and boys' shirts, woven
Woven cotton terry fabrics; toilet and kitchen linen of woven cotton terry fabrics
Gloves, mittens and mitts, knitted or crocheted, not elastic nor rubberised , impre-
gnated or coated with artificial plastic materials
woven overcoats , raincoats cloaks and capes , other
Gloves , mittens and mitts , crocheted not elastic nor than those of category 10
knitted or rubberised ,
other
Stockings , under stockings , socks , ankle– sockc , sockettes and the likes , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised , other than women's stockings of synthetic textile fibres
Men's and boy 's underpants and briefs , women 's girls' and infants' (other than babies' ), knickers and briefs , knitted or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised, of cotton or synthetic textile fibres
Men's and boys' coats of impregnated , coated , covered or laminated woven fabric
Men's and
and other
than those of category 14 A
Women's, girls' and infants' coats of impregnated , coated , covered or laminated woven fabric
Tableau des équivalences îtble of équivalence ptèce&Ag gr/ piece
Women's, girls' and
cloaks and capes , jackets and blazers , other than garments of category 15 A
infants' woven and other coats ,
Men's and boys' woven suits (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces , which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
Ken's and boys' woven jacKets and blazers
Ken's and boys' woven under garments other than shirts.
Handkerchiefs of woven fabrics', not more than 15 EUA/kg
H . Tableau das équivalences I Tabla of «quivalence I
a) dont acrylique of which acrylic
I Men's and boys' pyjamas, knitted or crocheted I of cotton or of synthetic textile fibres
and the
Yarn of discontinuous or waste synthetic [ fibres, not put up for retail sale
I Yarn of discontinuous or waste regenerated . I fibres, not put up for retail sale
Women's. girls' and infants' (other than babies' ) knitted or crocheted pyjamas and nightdresses , of cotton or synthetic fibres
Women's. girls' and infants' (other than babies' ) woven and knitted or crocheted dresses
Women's, girls' and infants' , (other than babies' ) woven ar.d knitted or crocheted skirts , including divided skirts
Knitted or crocheted trousers (except shorts] other than babies'
Women's. girls' and infants' (other than babies') woven suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pièces which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
Women's, girls' ànd infants' woven pyjamas and r.ightdresses
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than babies') woven undergarments other than pyjamas and nightdresses
Brassières , v/oven , knitted or crocheted
Woven pile fabrics and chenille fabrics (other than terry fabrics of cotton and
narrow woven fabrics)
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of polyethylene or polypropylene, less than
3 m wide; woven saoks of such strip or the like
Woven fabrics of strip or the like of
polyethylene or polypropylene 3 m or more wide
Woven fabrics of synthetic textile fibres , (continuous), other than those for tyres and those containing elastomeric yarn
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (continuous) other than those for tyres and those containing elastomeric yarn
of which other than unbleached or bl eached
Woven fabrics of regenerated, textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) other than narrow woven fabrics , pile fabrics
(including terry fabrics) and chenille fabrics
of which other than unbleached or bleached
Knitted or crocheted synthetic curtain fabrics including net curtain fabric
Woven table linen, toilet and kitchen linen other than of cotton terry fabric
Woven curtains (other than net curtains) and furnishing articles
Yarn of synthetic textile fibres (continuous) not put up for retail sale, other than non- textured single yarn untwisted or with a twist of not more than 50 turns per m
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres (continuous), not put up for retail sale, other than single yarn of viscose rayon
untwisted or with a twist of not more than 250 turns per m and single non-textured yarn of any acetate
Yarn of nan-made fibres (continuous) put up for retail sale
..'even fabrics of synthetic textile fibres ( continuous ), containing elastomeric yarn
Woven fabrics of regenerated textile fibres (continuous), containing elastomeric yarn
Yarn of carded sheep 's or lamb 's wool (woollen
Tableau dts équivalences I, Tuble of équivalence J
Carded or combed sheep 's or other fine animal hair
yarn ) or of carded fine up for retail sale
Yarn , of combed sheep 's: or lamb 's wool (.;orsted yarn) or of cor.oed fine animal hair,
Lot put up for retail sale-
lYarn of sheep 's or lamb 's wool or of fine janimal hair, put up for retail sale
Woven fabrics of sheep 's or lamb 's wool or of fine animal hair
Coton cardé ou peigne . Carded or combed cotton
Regenerated textile. fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded or combed
Synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste.), carded or combed
Yarn of synthetic textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sale
Yarn of regenerated textile fibres (discontinuous or waste) put up for retail sale ■
Carpets, carpetting and rugs, knotted (made up or not)
Woven, knitted or crocheted carpets ,
carpeting, rugs, mats and matting, and ' Kelem "Schumacks" and "Karamanie" rugs and the like jnade up or not); floor coverings of felt
faites à la main hand made
Harrow woven fabrics not exceeding 30 cm in width with selvedges (woven, gummed or made otherwise ) on both edges , other than woven labels and the like ; bolduc
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including v/oven, knitted or crocheted fabricc), figured ;
e.ubroidered , in the
chape or size;
^imped yarn (other than metallised yarn and .■yimped horsehair yarn); braids and ornamental trirnmings in the piece ; tassels , pompons and the like;
Tulle and other net fabrics (but not including v.'oven, knitted or crocheted fabrics ),
and the piece , in
hand or mechanically made lace , in the or in motifs ;
hïabroidery , in the piece , in strips or in motifs
like , not strips or
Knitted or crocheted fabric, not elastic nor rubberised , of synthetic textile fibres , containing elastofibres ; knitted or crocheted fabriq , elastic or rubberised
Rachel lace and long-pile fabric (imitation
fur ), knitted or crocheted , not elastic rubberised , of synthetic textile fibres
Knitted or crocheted fabrics, j;ot elastic nor
rubberised , other 38A," 63and64
than those
of categories
Travelling rugs and blankets
Clothing accessories and other articles
( except garments ), knitted or crocheted , Elastic nor rubberised; articles (other than bathing costumes ), of knitted or 'crocheted fabric , elastic or rubberised
Track suits of knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Women's, girls' and infants' (other than babies') suits and costumes (including co-ordinate suits consisting of two or three pièces which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together)
of knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Babies' under garments of knitted or crocheted fabrics , not elastic nor rubberised
Women's girls' and infants' knitted or crocheted petticoats and slips , of synthetic textile fibre , other than babies' garments
Babies' knitted outer garments
Men's and boys' suits (including co­ ordinate suits consisting of two or three pieces , which are ordered , packed , consigned and normally sold together) of knitted or crocheted fabric , not elastic nor rubberised
Men's and boys' woven industrial and occupational clothing ; women 's , girls' and infants' woven aprons , smock-overalls and other industrial and occupational clothing (vfhether or not also suitable for domestic use )
Women's stockings of synthetic textile fibre
Men 's and boys' woven bath robes , dressing gowns, smoking jackets and similar indoor wear and other outer garments , except garments of categories 6, 14A, 14B, 16, 17f 21; 76 and 79
Women's, girls' and infants' woven bath robes , dressing gowns , bed jackets and similar. indoor wear and other outer garments exceDt garments of catégories 6, 7, 15A, 15B,"21, 26, 27, 29, 76, 79 and 80
Under garments , other than babies' , knitted •or crocheted , not elastic nor rubberised ,
of wool, fine animal hair or regenerated textile fibres
elastic nor rubberised ,
of catégories 5» 7» 26, 27, 28, 71, 72, 73, 74 and 75
Shawls , scarves , mufflers , mantillas , and the like , other than knitted or crocheted
Ties , bow ties and cravats , knitted or crocheted
other than
Corsets , corset-belts , suspender–belts , braces , suspenders , garters and the like
(including such articles of knitted or crocheted fabric), other than brassières, whether or not elastic
or crocheted , not other than garments
Gloves , mittens , mitts , stockings , socks and sockettes , not toeing knitted or crocheted goods
Ka.de up accessories for articles of apparel ( for example , dress shields , shoulder and other pads , belts , muffs , sleeve protectors ,
pockets), other than knitted or crocheted
Iîandkerchiefs of woven cotton fabric of a value of more than 15 EUA/Kg
Twine , cordage , ropes and cables , of synthetic
Woven fabrics of man-made textile fibres and rubberised textile woven fabrics, for tyres
Sacks and bags, of a kind used for the packing of goods , of woven fabric , other than made from polyethylene or polypropylene strip
Wa-Hing and articles of wadding; textile flock and dust and mill neps
Pelt and articles of felt, whether or not
impregnated or coverings
coated ,
other than
Bonded; fibre fabrics , similar bonded yarn fabrics , and articles of such fabrics ,
whether or not impregnated or coated, other than clothing and clothing accessories
Nets and netting made of twine, cordage or
rope , and made up fishing nets of cordage or rope
Other articles: màde 'from yarn , twine , cordage , rot>c or cables, other th. . textile fabrics, articles made from such fabrics and articles
of category Ç7
Textile fabrics coated with gum or amylaceous substances, of a kind used for the outer covero of books and the like ; tracing cloth; prepared painting canvas ; buckram and
similar fabrics for hat foundations and similar uses
Tex'.ile fabrics impregnated , coated , cj- ered or laminatcd wvLh préparations of cellulor:e derivatives or o " other artificial plastic caterials
Twine , cordage ropes and cables , plaited or not. other than of synthetic textile fibres
Linoleum ana materials prepared on a textile ba.se in a similar ."'inner to linoleum,whether or not cut to shape or of a kind used as floor coverings ; floor coverings consisting of a coating applied on a textile base, cut to shane or not
Rubberised textile fabrics other than rubberised knitted or crocheted goods, excluding fabrics for tyres
Textile fabrics , impregnated or coated , othei than those of categories 100 , 102 and
103 ; painted canvas being theatrical scenery, studio backcloths or the like
Elastic fabrics and trimmings (other than knitted or crocheted goods ) consisting of textile materials combined with rubber
wicks, of woven, plaited or knitted textile materials , for lamps , stoves , lighters , candles and the like ; tubular knitted
gas–mantle fabric and incandescent gas mantles
Textile hosepiping and similar tubing, with or without lining, armour or accessories of other materials
Transmission, conveyor or elevator belts or belting , of textile material , whether or
not strengthened with metal or other material
Woven tarpaulins , sails, awings
Camping goods, woven, other than pneumatic mattresses and tents
Other made-up textile articles, woven, excluding those of catégories 113 and 114
Floor cloths , dish cloths , dusters and the like other than knitted or crocheted
Textile fabrics and textile articles of a kind commonly used in machinery or plant
Description of products
Other cotton fabrics
of which: other than grey or bleached
of which!other than grey or bleached
Description of products
lien'# wcrcn's wov*a trousers and Ken's shorts and breeches
Vocen's woven and knitted "blouses
Ken's overcoats, rainooats and other ocats, cloaks and oapes
Ken's woven underwear other than shirts
Anoraks, windcheaters, nun's and vocen 's
Description of products
Tame of diecont inuoua eynthetic fibres not for retail s%la
•oven and knitted skirts
WOQen's woven suits
3. Quota year
' . ?l*ce and &te zf ihiprsunt - eeans of trsr.soort Li--. fit ddia »;,Tf:ar'jU')icnt - royon oe transport
6, Country of crigin Pays, o'origlne
7. Country of .. \Ur.;t»n pay- Uo s-.rtiiaM- n
t,i in.:* i ;n;ii certify : at thj goooi coscriicG a!.ov.i havfi been criarged ao«lnst
No oc catc'-jfric
8 Place and date of shipment - Means of transport Lieu et date d'embarquement - Moyen de transport
10 Marks and numbers - Number and kind of packages - DESCRIPTION OF GOODS
11 Quantity (1) Quantité (1)
Mated by WILHEIM KOHLER VERLAG, 4950 Mlndin 1, Postfach 1130, Briiekankopl 2• – Federal Republic of Germany
3 Quota year
6 Country of origin Pays d'origine
I, the undersigned, certify that the goods described above originated in the country shown in box No 6, in accordance with the provisions in force in the European Economie Community.
CERTIFICATS in regard to HANOLOOMS. TEXTILE HANDICRAFTS md TRA OITIONAL TEXTILE PRODUCTS. OF THE COTTAGE INOUSTRY, Issued <n conformity with and under the conditions reguliting lr»d* in tettiie products wlth the European Economie Communlty
8 Vr«-. ;"3 nvirrscfs – Njmber and kmd ol packages – DESCRIPTION OF COODS
9 Quantity Ouantiti
I. TV iv.'Vjiei. cf •> hat tv consignment described above includes only the following textile products of the cottage industry of the country shown in boi No 4
I) fii-'-r. «vw jn Io:ts ese'3*'t so'fiv by hand or toot (handtooms) (2)
b) jv-r'ts or ether textile articles obia.ned manually from the fabrics described under a) and sewn solely by hand without the aid of any machine (handicrafts! (?)
e\ "il venal fo^'ore handicraft textile products made by hand, as defined m the list agreed between the European Economic Community and the country shown m bci No 4 I
'2 CoPjr!!"! l'JthO'ity (nami. tuli iDdriu. country) A.ljf tt cornatemi (non. ilrnit compita, payi)
Manfred Caspari
chenillestof •
Trikotagestof ,
62.04-21 stof 62.04-61 62.04-69
