c) projets a caractère général :
E6 Prest.scien.&tech * mm
H/R = Homes affectés à la recherche Agents > Effectif toïal
A. SURETE NUCLEAIRE ET CYCLE DU COMBUSTIBLE
Personalstand :
• 6. Technologie der thermonuklearen Fusion
B.3. Thermonukleare Fusionstechnologie
B.3. Technologie der thermonuklearen Fusion
3. Technologie der thermonuklearen I
- in pile-Versuch PAHR;
 Note from the Secretariat General
Associated Services
Personnel and Administration Research, Science and Education Scientific and Technical Information and Information Management
Internal Market and Industrial Affairs
agreement given in the frame of :
for Research & Development agreement.
Environment and Consumer Protection Service
FR for the proposal
EN for the technical annex
Opinion of the European Parliament
Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee
April or May 1979 .
Chapter 33 - Research and investment expenditure. Article 330 - Joint Research Centre (JRC) -
Complementary programme. Title of action :
Research programme to be implemented by the Joint Research Centre for the European Atomic Energy Community and for the European Economic Community (1980-1983).
Article 7 of the Treaty establishing the EAEC. Article 235 of the Treaty establishing the EEC.
The continuation of activities in progress, with certain changes of emphasis and direction to adapt the research
to the evolution in the requirements of the Community
and to developments in the Commission's sectoral policies, to take account of the research carried out in the indirect
action programmes, and more generally to draw the lessons from the experience gained.
The valorization for the benefit of the Community as a whole and of the JRC of the investments made in the ac­
tivities undertaken, and the optimization of the use of its resources by their increased concentration on activi­ ties of significant dimension.
To carry out research in the following areas :
"Nuclear Safety and the Fuel Cycle", consisting of four programmes :
- Plutonium Fuels and Actinide Research
- Safety of Nuclear Materials
- Fissile Materials Control and Management.
"New Energies", consisting of four programmes :
- Hydrogen Production, Energy Storage and Transport - Thermonuclear Fusion Technology
- High Temperature Materials.
"Study and Protection of the Environment", consisting of two programmes :
- Protection of the Environment
- Remote Sensing from Space.
"Nuclear Measurements", consisting of a single programme.
"Specific Support to the Sectoral Activities of the Commission", consisting of six programmes :
- Support to Safeguards
- Support to the Community Bureau of Reference - Training and Education
- .Valorization of Research Results •
•' . - Provision of Scientific and Technical Services on Request.
■"Operation of large scale installations"./.consistinq of the programme for the operation of the HFR reactor".
To contribute to the promotion throughout the Community of the harmonious development of economic activities, in ac­ cordance with the objectives of the activities of the Com­ munity for this puposes (articles 2 and 3 EEC) .
To contribute to the creation of the conditions necessary for the growth of nuclear industries and to the acquisition and dissemination of information in the nuclear field (ar­ ticles 1 and 4 EAEC) .
To satisfy the Council Resolution of 14 January, 1974 on the coordination of national policies and the definition
of Community actions in the field of science and technology.
 Nature of expenditure
5.1. Total cost during the period foreseen (4 years from 1.1.1980 to 31.12.1983) : 542,6 MEUA.
5.2. Partition of financing :
100 % to the charge of the Community budget.
5.3. Multiannual expenditure timetable 5i3ilili_Commitment_appropriations in MEUA
Nature of expenditure
The requirements have been evaluated on the basis of 2,260 agents paid from research appropriations.
In accordance with the mechanism adopted by the Council for the current multiannual JRC programme, the personnel expenditure (276 MEUA) is evaluated at 1 January, 1980 according to the hypotheses for calculation envisaged by the Commission at the beginning of 1979. After each decision of the Council modifying the level of remune­ rations the Commission will re-evaluate this expenditure and will inform the budgetary authority of the corres­ ponding incidence of this re-evaluation on the programme envelope .
Further, and in view of the probable departures of per­ sonnel as a whole from 1980 to 1983 (natural departures or departures in application of a possible prepension system) , certain transitional measures are proposed of a type which will favour rejuvenation and correction of the skill profile of the personnel. The JRC would be authorized to have at its disposal as from 1980 and beyond its authorized staff level 70 posts in antici­ pation of the effects of the departures. The Commission
would undertake to restore this supplementary staff level Within a reasonable time and in any case before
the^ last year of the programme.
At the practical level , these transitional measures could be the subject of a special agreement of the Council and could find a temporary solution by bud­ getary means. The Commission would undertake on its part to manage these posts in the best common inte­ rests and would keep the Council regularly informed.
The cost of this operation would not exceed 2 % of the personnel expenditure.
an amount of 266,6 MEUA, which constitutes, again in agreement with the mechanism adopted by the Council,
a flat rate evaluation expressed at current 1980-1983 values. These credits correspond to all the activities of the JRC, including those carried out on behalf of other Directorates-General, and contrary to the cur­ rent position.
This proposed presentation accords with the develop­ ment of the structure of the budget as wished by the
budgetary authority.
2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
3. Safety of nuclear materials
4. Fissile materials control and management
3. Thermonuclear fusion technology 4. High temperature materials
2. Hydrogen production, energy storage and transport
of which staff
1. Protection of the environment 2. Remote sensing from space
2 . Support to Safeguards
3. Support to the Community Bureau
of Reference
4. Training and education
5. Valorization of research results
6. Provision of scientific and technical services on request
The indicative breakdown of the envelope and staff between the
programmes proposed as presented in the draft decision is as follows :
* including a provisional amount of 6,77 reserved for the PAHR project
The total of 542,6 MEUA includes a provisional amount of 6,77 MEUA for a particular project in the Reactor Safety programme (PAHR project) , to be begun in 1982 in the event of favourable opinions from the relevant Consultative Committees .
Since a joint programme is essentially involved, it is financed by the normal resources of the budget.
The operation of the HFR reactor (point F of the preceeding table) has so far been the subject of a complementary pro­ gramme financed by the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands according to a financial partition key of 50 %- 50 % .
In order not to prejudge the position of member states on this programme, the Commission should present it in a man­ ner analogous to the other actions. Nevertheless this pro­ gramme will in all probability continue to be carried out under the present conditions.
On the other hand, the operation of the ESSOR reactor will not be further financed by the Italian Government' after 31.12.1980 .
The programme provides for its utilization after this date for a joint reactor safety programme.
- Control of the execution of the programme by the Advisory Committees on Programme Management and the General Advisory Committee of the JRC.
- Control of the financial management by the Financial Control (DG XX) .
- Control by the Court of Auditors.
- Control by the Budgetary Authority on the occasion of the discharge relating to the annual budget.
Subject : Proposal for a new 1980-1983 multiannual research programme of the Joint Research Centre.
1. Basis of the proposal :
The multiannual research programme of the JRC at present being carried out was decided in a 4 year perspective from 1 January 1977 to 31 December 1980.
The relevant decision, taken by the Council on 18 July 1977 (1) , provides for the review of this programme during its
third year (1979) .
The 'text provides that this review may lead to a Council Decision on a new four-year programme in accordance with the appropriate procedure.
It should be recalled in this context that this period of three years was decided upon to take full account of the usual time-scale of the programme decision process and of • the subsequent budgetary procedure, of the need to carry out the programme for a sufficiently long period for signi­ ficant lessons to be drawn from it, and finally of" the necessity to adapt regularly and reasonably quickly the JRC's programmes according to progress in research acti­ vities and to the evolution of research requirements arising from the development of various sectoral policies.
After carrying out a close and critical analysis of its activities in hand, of their progress, of the results obtained and of the evolution in requirements, the JRC considers that this is the right time to carry out certain adaptations and redirections and to launch some major ope­ rations .
In consequence the JRC proposes the adoption by the Com­ mission of a new 1980-1983 multiannual programme which will prolong and replace as from 1.1.1980 the present four-year programme and which includes similar provisions for the decision process.
2. General framework of the new programme :
The role of the JRC within the common. science and technology policy has recently been defined by the Commission (2) .
(1) Official Journal L200 of 8 August 1977.
(2) Communication of the Commission to the Council of 30 June
1977 "Common Policy for Science and Technology" - see sup­ plement 3/77 to the Bulletin of the European Communities.
It is generally recognized that the results of the first two years of execution of the present programme show that this role is developing in the right direction, that the Centre is better integrated into the Community context than in the past, and that it has the capacity to carry out effi­ ciently the tasks which have been entrusted to it.
In order to consolidate this role by basing itself on the results obtained during the two years of carrying out the present programme, the JRC considers that its new programme should broadly represent a continuation of the activities
in hand. Nevertheless, the research undertaken requires
certain changes of emphasis and direction either due to the attainment of certain turning points; or because it is pro­ ving necessary to adapt this research to the evolution in the requirements of the Community and to developments in the Commis sion's sectoral policies; or to take into account the research carried out under the indirect action programmes; or finally
to draw the lessons generally from the experience it has ac­ quired .
Finally, the JRC has been particularly guided by the concern to ensure continuity in its research to enable the Community as a whole and itself to benefit from the investments made
in the activities which have been put in hand, and by the need to optimize the use of its resources by concentrating them further into activities of significant dimension.
3. Technical content of the new programme : *
3.1 . The programme proposed for the period 1980-1983 does not differ radically in its direction from the 1977-1980 programme.
It remains built round a limited number of major research areas set out below.
The distribution of effort between the 6 areas is as follows :
- Nuclear Safety and the Fuel Cycle - New Energies
- Study and Protection of the Environment - Nuclear Measurements
- Spécifie Support to the Commission's Sectoral Activities
- Operation of Large Scale Installations
This represents a concentration of 74 % of total effort on energy and the environment, while the remaining 26 % are
essentially devoted to meeting the public service vocation of the JRC.
3.2. The research and development activities provided for in the new programme have received a broad measure of support from the existing Consultative Committees as a whole, whose dis­ cussions, advice and opinions have made an effective contri–
. bution to the preparation of the present proposal.
These Committees, established by the Council or the Commission, are as follows :
- the range of Advisory Committees on Programme Management particular to each sector of activity;
- the General Advisory Committee of the JRC which assists
the Director-General in the preparation of the programme as a whole;
- the Scientific and Technical Committee responsible for the nuclear part.
The formal opinions issued by these Committees are included in the relevant chapters of this proposal.
- the Scientific Committee of the JRC composed of repre­ sentatives of the staff and management;
- the Nuclear Policy Coordinating Committee;
- the Consultative Committee for Nuclear Safety;
- the Interdirectorate Committee for Research and Development.
The opinions of these Committees have been sought on the different aspects relevant to them.
4. Essential problem of the new programme :
The essential problem raised by the future is that of the re­ insertion into the programme of the ESSOR complex and its personnel, the expense of which has been undertaken since 1973 and up to 31.12.1980 by the Italian Government in the sense of article 6c of the EAEC Treaty.
In accordance with the" Commission Decision concerning the reorganization of the JRC, the Director-General received from the Commission in July 1978 guidelines for the pre­ paration of his programme (1) :
(1) COM (78) PV 481 (session of 12 July 1978)
"The Commission has decided to address to the Director-General of the JRC in the sense of article 6 of the decision of 13 Ja­ nuary 1971 concerning the reorganization of the JRC (O.J. L16 of 20.1.1971) guidelines consisting of the decision to make use of the ESSOR reactor on Community work in reactor safety. This directive is given with a view to the preparation of a programme proposal on the revision in 1979 of the multiannual programme of the JRC.
The Commission notes that the aim of the conclusions above
is to ensure that, while awaiting its insertion into the next multiannual research programme of the Community, the nuclear safety project (SARA) , in which the USA and Japan could both be potential partners, is financed by the Italian Government".
In view of the opinions issued by the Consultative Committees on the SUPER-SARA project, the Director-General of the JRC considers that these basic guidelines remain applicable.
The new programme proposed consequently includes in its Reactor Safety objective a SUPER-SARA project which makes use of the ESSOR complex from 1.1.1981 to the benefit of the Community .
The inclusion of this project in the Community programme does not involve a substantial increase in the budgetary volume of the JRC's activities as it appears at present in chapter 33 of the budget, but it obviously represents an increase in costs for the 8 Member States other than Italy.
A total staff level of 2,260 agents during the new programme is proposed. This level is the same as that fixed for the end of the preceding programme including the 222 agents from the personnel allocated to the ESSOR complex.
By fixing this level the Commission will respect the previous decision to reduce JRC staff by 80 posts in 4 years.
However, the Commission should draw the attention of its partners in the Institutions as a matter of first priority
to the fact that the time has come to interfere no further with the JRC personnel,failing which the latter would no
longer be in position tb exercise its tasks with the desired efficiency .
 A constant process of contraction of the staff does not make for sound personnel management.
However the ageing and the insufficient renewal .of technical
and scientific skills of the staff as a whole give cause for concern . .
Recruitment is not possible other than within the limits of 40 to 50 natural departures per year.
In order to help in readjusting the staff profile at the beginning of the new programme, certain transitional mea­ sures are proposed.
These involve allowing the JRC to have available from the first year of the programme (1980) and in excess of the authorized staff level 70 posts in anticipation of the ef­ fect? of natural departures.
The Commission would undertake to restore to normal this excess of staff before the last year of the programme. The cost of this operation would not exceed 2 % of the total staff expenditure.
Evaluation and valorization of results :
With the current programme the JRC has put into operation
an effective control of the efficiency of its work and its evaluation. In the future it intends to increase its efforts
in this direction in accordance with a general preoccupation in the research world and in full response to the concern expressed particularly by Parliamentary and control bodies.
In general terms the JRC is seeking to define precisely
the purposes of its research and the objectives of its programmes, to evaluate the time-scale of their realization, the decision points and the timetables for engagement of its financial resources and staff.
A phase of control and evaluation is the counterpart of this definition phase. It analyses the efficiency of the programme when under way against the achievement of its objectives, and it makes it possible to make any possible adjustments neces­ sary .
Particular attention has been paid to the appropriate presen­ tation of minutes and reports, and to the analysis of the budget and of the staff allocated to a programme or project.
The internal management bodies thus have at their disposal tabulated information on progress in the research and indi­
cations for budgetary follow-up.
An important role in programme evaluation is played by the external bodies (the General Advisory Committee and Advisory Committees on Programme Management) , and their opinions influence the internal decision-making process.
In parallel to the evaluation of the programme when under way, the JRC is seeking to evaluate the results of its research, i.e. to study the impact of its activity on society. This impact can be direct or indirect, immediate or long-term, positive or negative.
In this analysis the JRC is coming up against the same difficulties as those of national research laboratories.
A direct quantification of this impact being impossible, it has recourse to a number of indicators connected with
transfer of knowledge or cooperation with the outside world (publications, patents and licences, education and training activities, international cooperation, and, na­ turally, opinions issued by the Consultative Committees) .
1. Approval of the proposal for a multiannual research programme of the JRC (1980-1983) .
2. Approval at the same time of the transmission of this
proposal to the Council, the Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee.
A. Proposai for a new multiannual programme 1980-1983 B. The role of the Joint Research Centre
C. Lessons from the current programme
5. The programmes in comparison to the JRC's tasks B. Resources required
1. Commencement and duration of the programme 2. Staff
3. Programme allocation and budget appropriations C. Implementation procedures
2. Evaluation of research
3. Liaison with 'other institutions and advisory bodies
Opinion of the General Advisory Committee
III . Opinion of the Scientific and Technical Committee
This document is a formal proposal for a new multiannual programme of the Joint Research Centre, covering a four-year period from 1980 to 1983 inclusive.
With effect from 1 January 1980, it will prolong and replace the current four-year programme, which was started on 1 January 1977 and in principle will terminate on 31 December 1980.
The Council Decision of 18 July 1977 (1) adopting a research programme to be carried out by the Joint Research Centre on behalf of the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Economic Community
(1977-1980) makes provision for the programme to be reviewed during the third year (1979) .
It also provides that the review may lead to the adoption by the Council of a new four-year programme in accordance with the appropriate procedure .
After reviewing the activities in progress, their stage of advancement, the results achieved, the difficulties encountered, and also the prospects they hold out in view of the evolution of requirements ,
the Commission considers it expedient to make certain adjustements
and reorientations, and to launch a number of major operations.
Accordingly, itis proposing the adoption of the new Joint Research Centre multiannual programme (1980-83) , which is described below with refe­
rence to its justification, structure, objectives and funding.
The role of the Joint Research Centre
Over the last 5 years , the JRC has gone through a period of reorientation which, in co-operation with its consultative bodies, has led to the definition of a clearer role for it and of the activities to be -
carried out under it.
The results of the first two years of the programme have led the
JRC to conclude that its role is developing in the right direction,
that it is integrated better than in the past into the Community context, and that the JRC has the capacity to execute the tasks which have been entrusted to it„
(1 ) Official Journal L 200 of 8 August 1977
2. The Commission has recently described the JRC's role within the Community science and technology policy (1) .
It can be summarized as follows :
a) The execution of programmes of a "central" nature : the concentration of the JRC on research activities - which justify the establishment of a broad research potential at Community level, - which call for the centralization of facilities or functions (e.g. by the creation of large-scale installations) , - in which the JRC can act as a focal point or catalyst for co-ordination at Community level , - and finally in which it can promote the application of new technologies through­ out the Community.
b) The' performance of a public service role : the JRC is developing this by meeting the needs of Government organizations, universities and industry for specialized equipment, know-how, products and services. A significant factor in this respect is the independent position of the JRC and its impartial judgment.
c) The provision of services to the Commission : the JRC can act as the Commission's own tool in the provision to it of scientific and tech­ nical expertise and support in the formulation and implementation of the sectoral policies of the Communities. An important new development in this respect is the contribution which the JRC can make to scienti­ fic and technical co-operation with the developing countries within the development policies of the Community.
3 „ In order to consolidate this role and in view of the results in the last two years in the execution of the present programme , the JRC considers that its new programme should broadly represent a continuation of the present one. But, at the same time, the research carried out under this programme requires certain changes of emphasis and direction due to the attainment of certain milestones , or because it is proving necessary to adapt them to the evolution in the needs of the Community and to developments in the Commission's sectoral policies, or to take into account the development of research carried out under the indirect action programmes , and finally to draw lessons generally from the ex­
perience it has acquired.
In this last respect, the JRC has been particularly guided by the concern to ensure continuity in its research to enable the Community as a whole and itself to benefit from the investment made in the ac­
tivities put in hand under the present programme, and by the need to optimize the use of its resources by concentrating them further into activities of significant dimension.
(1) Communication from the Commission to the Council of 30 June 1974 "Common Policy for Science and Technology" - see Supplement 3/77 to the Bulletin of the European Communities.
C. Lessons from the current programme
The following assessments can be made from the results of the present research programme, which is being carried out in close association with the indirect action programme :
The execution of this, the largest programme among the JRC's ac­ tivities, is being carried forward with success. The construction
of the LOBI loop has been completed and plans should be made to exploit the considerable investment which this represents through
an extensive experimental programme culminating in in-pile experiments „ Whole-core accident, fuel-coolant interaction and post-accident heat removal problems are receiving increased attention. The prospects of cooperation in this area of research with the United States' Nuclear Regulatory Commission highlight the value of the JRC's work. More emphasis will also be laid on the more theoretical activity of re­ liability and risk assessment. The concern voiced in some political circles and by the general public on the development of nuclear energy can only serve to emphasize the value of this area of research;
2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
Again in the context of concernfor nuclear plant safety, JRC activity in this highly specialized field is centred on long-term objectives. Work is proceeding according to schedule. No external or internal factor would seem to suggest that the present policy should be amended.
3. Management of nuclear materials and radioactive waste
It would appear that the part of this programme which deals with chemical separation and transmutation of actinides will soon reach a stage where a decision will have to be taken at both Community and world level.
Some change of direction is foreseeable in this area. The models for assessing the long-term risks of radioactive waste storage are being given practical application in certain specific georgraphical sites. It may therefore be considered that this part of the programme is entering into a phase of active application. The problems posed by radioactive waste throughout the fuel cycle require deeper study and offer development potential.
Lastly, the work on reactor component decontamination is directed
towards the general line-' of decommissioning of nuclear plants, a
preoccupation which is beginning to make itself felt at world level. In view of this trend, new developments should be considered in the
The "Habitat and thermal conversion" project is being actively carried forward in conjunction with the Indirect Action programme and within the International Energy Agency 's Implementing Agreementon solar energy; the prime importance of the JRC's work in this field is widely rec'ognized .
The construction of the European Solar Test Installation (ESTI) is nearing completion. Its elements should come into operation progressively
during 1979; the task will then be to exploit in 1980 this substantial investment for the benefit of European research bodies and industry. It would appear quite justified to intensify this programme.
1978 has been marked by a"world first"with the putting into operation
of a closed-circuit loop corresponding to the MK 13 ^ SO^/HBr) cycle. The JRC also plays the role of project leader in the production of
hydrogen within the International Energy Agency and international co­ operation is being vigorously established in this field.
Whereas the technical obstacles to producing hydrogen from water are being progressively overcome , the fact still remains that any pros­ pects for economic competitivity are long-term ones. In this perspec­ tive thought should be given to the method to be adopted to
maintain technical knowledge at an adequate level until such time as
it can be applied on anindustrial scale. The problems of hydrogen trans­ port and storage, for their part, retain constant world-wide attention
as this energy vector is of considerable technical and economic interest and protects the environment.
6. Thermonuclear fusion technology
The conceptual studies of a future demonstration reactor are being continued : the JRC is making efforts to assemble the European laboratories interested in these studies.. The engineering problems are being tackled in a practical manner with research in materials for post-JET machines .
The basic work for intensification of these activities is being pursued both in conceptual studies and design work and in re­ search on materials. The installation and operation of the cyclotron is scheduled for the middle of 1980. Discussions on
the new research programme for 1979-1983 in controlled thermo­ nuclear fusion have revealed the need to intensify the Community's efforts to solve fusion technology problems. The JRC has a duty
to participate in such efforts.
This relatively new activity has quickly reached a high degree of maturity. The Petten Establishment's role as a meeting point is recognized; research proper and work on setting up highly-specialized test installations have been carried forward quickly. Participation in COST action 50 is giving a new dimension to this work. In view of the limited .staff resources available for the programme, a great deal of selectivity will have to be exercised in future in the choice of new activities.
8. Environment and resources
The various projects are being implemented according to schedule, in close collaboration with the Indirect Action programme and with the Environment and Consumer Protection Service. Discussions both within
theCommissionandwiththeMemberStates' competentauthoritiespoint to the importance of the problem of Chemical substances in ,*the envi­
ronment and the need to push forward the development of ECDIN. Concentration of the JRC's research on this "chemical products" line should rapidly bear fruit.
As regards remote sensing from space, the final report on the AGRESTE project has been acclaimed by NASA. The recent launchings of the HCMM and NIMBUS-7 satellites have given the new TELLUS and EURASEP pro­ grammes their full development. The OCS airborne experiment has revealed how excellent co-operation between the numerous associated laboratories can be organized around such projects. It is in­ creasingly evident that there is an application potential for
remote sensing techniques in both agriculture and marine pollution. The JRC 's early effort in this field deserves to be continued
9. Measurements, standards and reference techniques (METRE)
In the nuclear field, the Central Bureau of Nuclear Measurements is successfully maintaining its central position in the highly
specialized scientific area of nuclear standards„ Since the trend in the work load in this field is hardly on the decrease, here again the problem of selecting objectives and optimizing resources and existing capacities arises, in so far as the non-nuclear part of the METRE programme is concerned and leaving aside support tor the Community Bureau of Reference (CBR) , the question is to determine how far the activities which the JRC has carried out so far tally
with its specific role as described above in view of the development of cooperation in this field.
I0o Service and support activities
During both 1977 and 1978 the Commission has widely used the JRC 's scientific and technical expertise both in connection with develop­
ment policy and participation in INFCE, in the form of support for
the inspections of the Safeguards Directorate and in the evaluation
of demonstration programmes<> Resources allocated to these various
tasks already appear too limited to satisfy the demand. Other activities, such as the informatics research programme or training and education tasks,areproducingpositiveresultsandshouldbecontinued., Lastly,
the operation of the HFR reactor continues as an example of one
of the JRC's public service rolesin the sector of large-scale in­ stallations .
1. The preparation of this programme proposal has involved a long
and complex procedure, which started in the early months of 1978
and which called for the participation of all the Centre 's scientific
and technical staff.
The researchers and responsible officials at all Centres have been involved in the study, selection and delimitation of the possible areas of activity, where necessary in close collaboration with those in charge of the indirect action projects and the represen­ tatives of the Directorates-General responsible for the sectoral
On the basis of the preliminary guidelines drawn up by the Director-
General in March 1978, thirty discussion groups and the same number
of working parties have worked out specific proposals.
 These were put forward at internal "hearings", held in July 1978, which were open to all the staff. In the light of the results, more stringerti guidelines were laid down by the Director-General to en­
able the working parties to prepare "programme modules", i.e. a number of basic units which could be put together to form the overall proposal.Over400researchersintotal helpedwiththeinternal preparatory work.
At the level of external consultation, the Advisory Committees on Programme Management (ACPMs) were called upon from
November 1978 onwards to give their first reactions to the technical
contentofthemodules, inasecondstage,"theywereformallvcon­ sulted at the request of the General Advisory Committee (GAC) on that part of the proposal that came within their responsibility.
In the course of January 1979, the GAC held an exploratory discussion,
during which it reviewed the various options open for the contents of the future programme.
In the light of the views expressed during this debate, the Director-
General prepared a_ preliminary draft proposal, which was placed be­ fore the Committee at"a further"meeting on 21 and 22 February, during
which it adopted the formal Opinion appended to this document.
On 5 and 6 March, the Scientific, and Technical Committee (CST) was formally consulted on the nuclear section of the preliminary draft,
and formulated an Opinion, which is likewise appended to this document .
On these basis, the Director-General of the JRC has drawn up this proposal, which was adopted by the Commission at its meeting of
14 March 1979 for transmission to the Council, the European Parlia­ ment and the Economic and Social Committee.
The programme proposed for the period 1980-83 does not differ essentially in its orientation from the 1977-80 programme. It is built around
a limited number of key topics :
- matters of priority concern in nuclear safety;
- the development of future. forms of energy;
- the study and protection of the environment;
- the development and execution of reference measurements;
- the provision of specialized scientific and technical support for the Commission's sectoral activities.
With regard to its objectives , the programme sets out to
a) take full advantage, in significant experimental programmes,
of a number of investments, which were authorized during the preceding period and which are now in the final stage of implementation (the LOBI loop for reactor safety, cyclotron
for fusion materials and the ESTI solar test installation) ,
and in the same spirit to give to certain parts of the research anoperationalcontent (theECDINprojectintheprotection
of the environment and the reinforcement of the High Temperature Materials Information Centre) .
b) bring a number of research topics which hitherto have been confined to preliminary studies (chiefly on design) to a more advanced stage of development by the commissioning of experimental installations (the SUPER-SARA project in reactor safety, several projects on the management and storage of radio­ active waste, and the magnetic isotope separator project at the CBNM).
c) wind up, in the course of the programme, a number of projects which either have less priority or are less well adapted to the specific role of the JRC (the own research section of the non­ nuclear METRE programme) , or which do not warrant continuation
at current level under present circumstances (the actinide incineration project in radioactive waste management and storage, decontamination of power station components, hydrogen production by thermochemical means) .
launch a limited number of new projects (storage and transport of energy, indoor pollution in the protection of the environment, solar power stations, and the tritium testing laboratory in fusion technology) .
lastly follow up the activities in progress under the 1977-80 programme for the rest of the topics envisaged, the only adjustments being those called for by management experience or by changing requirements.
All in all, the evolution of the programme is more apparent in the breadth and quality of the projects to be carried out than in the areas it embraces.
The programme centres around six research areas (as against five in the 1977-80 programme) :
The area "Nuclear Safety and the Fuel Cycle" is subdivided into four programmes :
A.2. Plutonium Fuels and Actinide Research
A.3. Safety of Nuclear Materials m A.4. Safeguards and Management of Fissile Materials
The fact that the programme on Safeguards and Management of Fissile Materials comes under this heading-rather than among the support projects is due to the scale of the research that needs to be done and its potential value as a support to the work of the IAEA.
The area "Future Forms of Energy" is again subdivided into four programmes :
The two
B.2. Hydrogen Production, Storage and Transport of Energy B.3. Thermonuclear Fusion Technology
B.4. High Temperature Materials
Programme B.2. takes account of the evolution of the work, and provides for the research to be extended to techniques of storing energy in forms other than hydrogen.
area "Study and Protection of the Environment" comprises programmes :
C.l. Protection of the Environment C.2. Remote Sensing from Space
In view of their homogeneity, it seemed expedient to group all the activities associated with Remote Sensing from Space under programme C.2. rather than distributee them according'to their uses.
The area Nuclear Measurements is dealt with in a single programme of the same name. Owing to its orientation, the non­ nuclear section of the METRE programme is included in topic E under the heading "Support to the CBR"
The area "Specific Support for the Commission's Sectoral Activities" is subdivided into six programmes :
E.2. Support to Safeguards
E.3 . Support to the Community Bureau of Reference
E.4. Training and Education
. E.5 . Valorization of Research Results
E.6. Provision of Scientific and Technical Services on Request
There is no separate programme of support for another important sectoral activity, development aid. Owing to the specific nature of the contributions the JRC will be called upon to make, provision for such support is made under the appropriate programmes, in particular Solar Energy, Remote Sensing and Training.
Lastly the area Operation of Large-scale Installations" is represented
at the moment by one programme only relating to the operation of the HFR reactor.
The structure thus adopted should take into account the specific character of the research objectives, and assure efficient technical and financial management of the programmes. As in the past, moreover, a close link will be established with the indirect
action programmes on topics similar to those being studied by the JRC (mainly applicable to programmes A.2, A.3, B.l, B.2, B.3, C.l).
As the most ambitious of the JRC programmes/ the reactor safety programme utilizes the nuclear facilities of the Centre to the full.
For the most part, the research is of a confirmative nature and is intended to back up the work of the licensing authorities with experiments and detailed theoretical analyses. Apart from some activities of a horizontal nature in areas common to every type of reactor, the projects are mainly focused on the safety aspects of light water reactors and of liquid metal cooled fast breeder reactors. The emphasis of the programme is on a few major experi­
ments, simulating abnormal events of very low probability but with significant consequences.
The programme breaks down into eleven projects - a large number, but one that in no way implies dispersal of resources, but rather the intensity of the effort devoted to this field.
a) Projects more specific to light water reactors :
- project LOBI : an experimental out-of-pile study of the loss-of- coolant phenomenon in light water reactors;
- project SUPER-SARA : an in-pile experiment simulating the behaviour of light water reactor fuel in the event of coolant loss;
- projet LWR primary circuit integrity : early detection of faults in light water reactor vessels;
b) projects more specific to breeder reactors :
- project LMFBR subassembly thermohydraulics : modelling of the thermohydraulic behaviour of fuel assemblies in abnormal situations;
- project LMFBR mechanical tests : study of certain aspects of the behaviour of structural materials;
- project EAC : development of codes to describe scenarios of abnormal situations;
- projectsPAHR and PAHR in-pile : theoretical and experimental study of molten core behaviour, including in-pile tests In accordance with the opinion of the General Advisory Cpmmittee, some of these tests are to be the subject of a special decision
during the course of the programme.
- project CONT : study on the behaviour of structures and contain­ ments subjected to accident stresses.
- project FCI : study of fuel-ccolant interaction under accident conditions ;
- project Reliability and Risk Assessment : analysis and collection of data on reactor reliability and risk assessment.
A.2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
This programme comes partly under the heading of fast reactor fuel development and partly under that of fundamental research on acti­ nides. It is mainly being conducted in the specialized laboratories of the European Institute at Karlsruhe, and is subdivided into three projects :
- Utilization limits of plutonium fuels : their behaviour is studied under normal and abnormal conditions;
- Safety of the plutonium fuel cycle : theoretical and experimental studies will endeavour to provide an answer to some of the problems raised by the presence of transuranium elements in
the fuel cycle;
- Actinide research : a study of chemical bonding in solid actinides. This long-term basic research takes the form of fundamental theoretical studies backed up by solid state physics experiments on pure samples prepared and characterized in the laboratory.
A.3. Safety of nuclear materials
The programme centres chiefly on problems relating to the treatment
and temporary or permanent storage of radioactive waste . The aim of the theoretical and experimental research is the safety evaluation
of waste management procedures.
The programme is divided into four projects :
- Risk evaluation : study of safe waste management techniques;
- Protective barriers : study of natural and artificial barriers to the migration of radionuclides into the biosphere;
- Actinide separation and actinide monitoring : studies of the chemical insulation and control of these very long-life elements .
In this programme, the use of hot cells will be considered for experiments with a more direct application on industrial scale.
Moreover, with regard to the decommissioning of the Ispra I reactor,
which ought by its nature to come within the scope of this programme,
the Director-General reserves the right, in accordance with the opinion
of the General Advisory Committee, to examine the decommissioning operations from the viewpoint of safety requirements and in the light of other projects in this field which are to be carried out under the corresponding indirect action programme.
A.4. Fissile materials control and management
Continuing concern to strengthen safeguards and fissile material management methods call for a sustained research and development effort. In close collaboration with the Euratom Safeguards Directo­ rate, the national laboratories, the management of nuclear instal­ lations and the officials of the IAEA,the JRC intends to step up its contribution in this field. The aim of the proposed programme is to develop various safeguards techniques for application in the main types of nuclear installations. The programme is subdivided into four projects according to the techniques being studied :
- the first is concerned with the acquisition of data.for materials accountancy and the evaluation of the material .balance; ~
- the second relates to the development of measurement methods and instrumentation and of techniques for evaluating the isotopic composition of irradiated fuels;
- the third is a study of containment and surveillance techniques;
- the fourth and last is devoted to the study of safeguard systems ' for the whole of the fuel cycle.
Against the background of the substantial efforts being made in the Community to develop solar energy, the JRC intends to follow up a number of specialized tasks which correspond more to its own role than others. They are summed up in four projects :
- project ESTI : exploitation of a large testing facility under natural or simulated radiation for both thermal and photo­ voltaic systems;
- project Habitat : studies of systems that permit the use of solar energy in all seasons, and of high-temperature systems for industrial and agricultural applications;
- project Solar power plants : a contribution, through materials research and design studies, to improving the economic competi­ tiveness of power plants;
- project PPC : basic reasarch on new processes for the conversion and storage of solar energy.
Provision is made within the solar energy programme for technical assistance to developing countries.
B.2. Hydrogen production, energy storage and transport
In the development of new energy sources, a great deal of attention has been devoted to the sources themselves and to systems of product­ ion. Nevertheless, the storage and transport of the energy produced are matters that should not be overlooked; in many cases, they are an essential requirement for the economic utilization of the new systems, whether because of the intermittent nature of the source
(solar energy) , of because of the mode of utilization (mobile
applications) , or because of the distance between the centres of
production and consumption. In these respects, hydrogen holds out
attractive prospects - hence the JRC 's interest in the production of this energy carrier.
The project on the thermochemical production of hydrogen is a continuation of the research on a scale adapted to the evolution
of the energy scene, whereas the advanced studies on energy carriers and the systems studies are an extension of the activities towards energy transport and storage problems through systems analysis and the testing of components.
B.3. Thermonuclear fusion technology
The JRC's work on fusion is closely linked with the Community's
research and training programme in the field of fusion and plasma physics.
It is concentrated on technological problems, in which the experience gained with fission reactors can be turned to good use, -and is subdivided into six projects :
- conceptual design studies on fusion reactors : a contribution to the design of post-JET machines;
- blanket technology studies : an essential technological component of the future reactor;
- studies of structural materials : notably the evolution of their properties under irradiation;
- studies on advanced materials : chiefly exploratory;
- operation of the cyclotron : experimental research on the irradiation of materials;
- preparatory work for a tritium testing laboratory.
B.4. High Temperature Materials
This relatively new programme is intended to encourage within the Community the development of these materials which are necessary for the energy technologies of the future.
The work is concentrated on three closely connected projects:
a High Temperature Materials Information Centre, which relies on the skills developed and maintained within the research project Materials and Engineering Studies, while the quantifiable data are stocked together in the Data Bank which will be developed in the third project.
C.l . Protection of the Environment
Within the very large scope of the problems posed by the protection of the environment the JRC proposes to concentrate its activities on a very limited number of research areas and thus to continue the rationalization effort begun in 1977.
Apart from a project devoted to the theoretical and experimental study of the impact on the environment of fossil fuel power plants. in particular the atmospheric pollution which they cause, all the projects are connected with the problem of the introduction of toxic chemical substances into the environment.
The projects are five in number, and are as follows:
- the ECDIN project, which is given a special priority, is tied to the transition towards an operational stage of an information and data network on chemical substances;
- the project Exposure to Chemical Products which is broken down into a sub-project Indoor Pollution, a new activity the aim of which is to make an inventory of the sources of this pollution
and to analyse and characterize these pollutants ; and a sub-project Organic Substances, which is concerned with the development of
. analytical methods of high precision and with the preparation of reference substances in this special area;
- the projects Air Quality and Water Quality deal with particular aspects of the pollution of these environments;
- the project Heavy Metals Pollution is devoted to the problems of exposure to these toxic substances and of their effects on health.
C.2. Remote Sensing from Space
Even though the techniques of remote sensing from airborne platforms and platforms in space have reached an operational stage in certain cases, they nevertheless require research activities to be continued. The bringing into operation of new systems (e.g. microwave radar ) or the development of existing systems (e.g. Landsat-D) continously offer new perspectives for their application which require trial and verif­ ication. In parallel, access fornew catergories of users of these techniques, in particular the developing countries, must be facilitated by the realization of demonstration projects.
Two projects which concern two areas of general interest for the policies of the Community are proposed: a project"Agriculture"and a project "Pratection of the Sea" .
D. 1 . Nuclear Measurements
This programme is essentially carried out at the Central Bureau of Nuclear Measurements at Geel.
It consists of three projects:
- measurement of nuclear data by means of the large accelerators of the Establishment;
- nuclear reference materials and techniques, which covers the develop­ ment of these materials which are indispensible to the nuclear indus­ try (and to safeguards) . In particular, the examination of the possibilities of production,chemical purification and isotopic enrichment by electromagnetic means of rare actinides is proposed with the aim of arriving at the beginning of European independence in this field, which is dependant upon suppliers outside the Community ;
- European Shielding Information Service (ESIS) , the aim of which is the dissemination of information on protection against shielding
These activities, which closely integrate service and research aspects, constitute a framework for hosting the management teams of European informatics programmes.
They are concentrated on two projects of a recognized central character : the project Teleinformatics which places the JRC's activities within the CREST-CIDST plan and the COST actions, and which is tied to the development of the EURONET network; and the project. Eurocopi which will improve the provision of information on computer programmes, in parti­ cular by studies of programming techniques and languages.
Support to Safeguards
As an independent European centre, the JRC plays the role of reference laboratory for the analysis of samples taken during safeguards inspections.
In addition to analytical verification work, the JRC gives technical assistance to the Safeguards Directorate. This assistance includes
the adaptation and checking of devices or complete systems destined for scientific installations.
Support to the Community Bureau of Reference
The JRC will continue some tasks of co-ordination and organization of specialist groups and will continue in the earlier stages to provide technical assistance in evaluation and statistical analysis of results. A certain number of specialists from the Ispra, Geel.and Petten Establishments will participate part-time in this work, which will be accompanied by a certain amount of actual research.
Training and Education
This programme covers the organization of the "Ispra Courses", the subjects of which are closely related to the Centre's research.
The number of these courses will be increased, and greater conside­ ration will be given to the specific requirements of the countries connected to the Community by cooperation agreements.
Valorization of Research Results
The JRC will make a particular effort to valorize the results of its research and to facilitate the transfer of technology which originates in patents and know-how derived from its work. The JRC will provide within its programmes a specific support for the Directorate-General "Scientific and Technical Information and Information Management".
Provision of Scientific and Technical Services on Request
This programme covers the JRC's activities carried out at their request in support of other services of the Commission. These services
are of two types: technical evaluations which use systems analysis methods, or technical assistance based on the special skills and equipment of the JRC. This latter type of service includes assis­ tance with the' technical management of projects derived from the policies conducted by other Directorates General. Such activities are particularly beneficial to the coordination of programmes carried out simultaneously by direct and indirect action.
5. The programmes in comparison to the JRC's tasks
The table 1 (p. 21) gives an overview of the manner in which each of the programmes described above relates to one or other of the aspects of the JRC's role within the common policy on science and technology .
In addition to the three essential tasks - central role , public service, supportfortheCommission-aparticularheading
indicates the programmes which are connected to an existing indirect action or other actions of the Commission. A particular co-ordination affort obviously takes place within the services of the Commission before this co-ordination is submitted to examination by the external consultative bodies.
The operation of the reactor will continue to the benefit of the research programmes of the participating Member States and for the JRC's own requirements. Outside customers will also be able to use the irradiation facilities on payment.
During the next programme, the teams will continue to maintain and upgrade the reactor, and to develop and improve the irradiation equipment and apparatus to enable this installation to keep its position among the Community's most important irradiation means.
A3 Safety of Nue.Mat.
|C2 Remote Sensing ID Nucl.Measurements
IE4 Training and Education
|E6 Prov.of scient.Stechn.
services on request F1 HFR
Table 1 - The programmes in relation to the tasks of the JRC
C : little correlation - : not applicable
Support to Service I Commission
Connection with indirect action or other actions of the Commission
Commencement and duration of the programme
The proposed programme covers a four-year period from 1980 to 1983 inclusive. As of 1 January 1980, it will extend and replace the current programme, also of four years' duration, which was launched on 1 January 1977.
In this way the Commission proposes to implement the Council Decision adopting the current programme (1) , which provides for a review during the third year and for the possibility, at the same time, of adopting a new four-year programme.
In this connection, it should be recalled that the three-year frequency was adopted, first, in order to make due allowance for the normal time-span of the programme decision process and the budgetary procedures that follow it; second, because of the need to carry on the programme over a long enough period to enable significant experience to be gained; and lastly because it is desirable that the JRC programmes should be adapted regularly and fairly rapidly in the light of the progress of activities and the changing requirements resulting from the evolution of various sectoral policies.
In applying these principles, the JRC has carried out a, careful analysis of the activities in progress, making an overall review of the resources employed and the results achieved, in order to assess the justification, stage of advancement, efficiency, success and usefulness of the work. Somefurtherparticularsinthisconnectionwillbegivenlater, .
d) After concluding this analysis, the Commission feels that the time has come to expand some of the major activities and reorientate others, i.e. to redefine a number of objectives within the context of the broad research areas to which the JRC is contributing.
This redefinition has led the Commission tq propose the adoption of a new 1980-83 programme containing similar provisions with regard to the decision procedure.
(1) Official Journal L 200 of 8 August 1977
a) The total staff complement of the JRC during the new multiannual programme will be 2,260 employees. This is the same level as was laid down for the end of the preceding programme, including the JRC staff then assigned to the ESSOR complex.
b) An indicative breakdown of this staff between the various programmes is given in table 3 r(p. ;27) .
Asin- thecurrentprogramme,thestaffcomplementincludes:
- personnel directly involved in research (including all categories of employees, not only graduate staff) ; these are the research staff, the most representative unit for measuring the volume and intensity of a programme;
- a portion of the personnel commensurate with the requirements of the programme for scientific and technical support (services rendered by the computer centre, central workshops, medium activity laboratories, etc.);
- and lastly, a portion assigned to all general services (akin to publicservices), anddistributedamongthevariousprogrammes in proportion to the total number of research staff.
These distinctions were originally made because of a need for greater clarity in the internal organization and management of the Centre;
this need led to an appropriate change in the structure of the budget from 1977 onwards.
c) In fixing the level of staff at 2,260, the Commission is complying with the decision taken earlier to reduce the JRC's staff by 80 posts in four years.
Although the JRC's role could be considerably strengthened by a gradual expansion of its activities, and although its staff is a mere fraction of the research personnel engaged in Europe in the same fields, it does not seem expedient at this stage to attempt any reinforcement
of team numbers, but rather to take steps to increase their flexibility.
Hence the work of the JRC will be directed more towards giving proof of the optimum efficiency of its laboratories and towards wider participation by its technicians in the world of research.
However/ the Commission wishes to point out clearly that no further reduction should now be made in the JRC's staff, as otherwise this work force, which in the last few years is recognized to have acquired new quality and usefulness, would no longer be capable of carrying out its tasks with the desired efficiency.
d) The decline in the level of authorized staff over the past ten years or more has helped to bring about an overall ageing and insufficient renewal of technical and scientific skills. New
recruitment has been possible only to the limited extent that natural wastage is in excess of the required reductions .
but natural wastage is uncontrollable in its consequences.
Without doubt, the new staff regulations for researchers offer some ways of improving their mobility and the flexibility of teams, and thus assist the necessary rejuvenation and the adaptation of skill profiles in accordance with the activities undertaken. It is true also that a certain amount of staff renewal has almost held stable the overall ageing of the
' personnel and helped to reinforce some of the scientific disci­ plines, although the factor of insecurity associated with the contract system does not always enable it to attract the proven specialists that some of the projects call for. But at all events one needs to go further and recognize in the first place that an ongoing process of contraction in the authorized staff does not make for sound personnel management.
Accepting that the level of personnel is stabilized, the Commission considers that in the second place agreement should be reached
on a recruitment policy based on a multiannual forecast of staff losses. This wastage through resignations, deaths, transfers or retirements, amounts to forty per year. Though this figure may seem substantial, it is barely 2% per annum of the total staff, and even less in the active research sector; owing to the average age, movements are more numerous in the general services, which
are already strained to the limit and must be maintained at more
or less the present level.
e) In anticipation of an enlargement of the Community, an early retirement scheme is now being studied by the inter-institutional services, and is expected to enter into force in the near future. Thus the staff might be given the option of voluntary retirement
at sixty, which would speed up the rate of departures over a certain period of time.
In view of the total number of staff likely to be leaving, the Commission is proposing a number of temporary measures designed to telp in readjusting the profile of the JRC staff. With effete from the first year of the programme , the JRC would have 70 posts avail­ able in excess of the authorized number to offset the effects of
• natural wastage; the Commission would undertake to restore the
situation to normal as early as possible, and in any case not latter than the end of the programme.
This room for manoeuvre would enable the JRC both to launch there
new activities in optimal conditions of dynamism and skills#and to conduct an overall recruitment polices with adequate medium-term prospects .
At the practical level, these temporary measures might be the subject of special agreement by the Council and find a temporary solution through budgetary channels . The Commission would undertake to handle these posts in the common interest and would keep the Council regularly informed.
The cost of this operation would be not more than 2% of the personnel expenditure .
3. Programme allocation and budget appropriations
a) The overall budget resources required for the implementation of the proposed programme, given the specified technical contents and time­ scale, is estimated at 543 million EUA for the four-year period 1980-83. This amount covers all expenditure in respect of the programme and takes account of any revenue that can be identified at this stage.
In other words, these appropriations will cover all the JRC's activities including those carried out for other Directorates-General. The latter are not taken into account in the programme envelope for the current period. The proposed layout complies with the change in the budget structure requested by the budget authority.
In accordance with the arrangements adopted by the Council for the current multiannual programme, this envelope includes :
- an amount of 276 million EUA for personnel expenditure estimated as at 1 January 1980 on the basis of hypothese envisaged by the Commis­ sion in early 1979. Following any Council decision adjusting the level of remunerations, the Commission will re-assess the expenditure and notify the budget authority of the effects of the re-assessment on the programme envelope.
- an amount of 267 million EUA in respect of operating expenditure, this being a flat-rate assessment expressed in current values;
It should be noted, moreover, that this total amount includes an provision­ al amount of 6.77 million EUA for in-pile experiments in the context of the PAHR project (Programme A.l Reactor Safety). This amount will not be used until favourable opinions have been;received from the relevant Advisory Committee on Programme Management and the General Advisory Committee;
these opinions ought to be on hand by the end of 1981 .
An indicative breakdown of funds and staff between the proposed pro­ grammes is given in the table 3 (p. 27) . Moreover, each of the tech­ nical sheets in the Annex gives a detailed breakdown of the requirements for staff and specific appropriations (investments, operating expendi­ ture and contracts) for the programme in question. It should be noted that the contracts to be concluded by the JRC will not overlap at any point with those of the indirect action programme.
b) The allocation of resources between the six research topics in the programme is as follows :
- Nuclear safety and the fuel cycle - Future forms of energy
- Study and protection of the environment - Nuclear measurements
- Specific support to the Commission 's sectoral activities
- Operation of large-scale installations
- , This means that 74 % of the total funds is concentrated in the ' field of energy and the environment, whilst the remaining 26 %
is mainly to cover the JRC's public service functions.
c) In comparison with the preceeding programme, the xatio between staff expenditure and scientific and technical operating expenditure has been slightly adjusted in favour of the latter, mainly because of the beginning of major technological programmes. The proportions are 51% and 49% respectively.
The table below summarizes the general distribution of funds : Table 2 - Distribution of funds into main categories
B.2. Specific support appropriations (infrastructure and laboratory
* Including the provisional amount of 6.77 million EUA reserved for the PAHR project.
Plutonium Fuels and Actinlde Research
Safety of Nuclear Materials
Fissile Materials Control and Management
Hydrogen Production, Energy Storage and Transport
Thermonuclear Fusion Technology
High Temperature Materials
Protection of the Environment
Remote Sensing from Space
Total Protection of the Environment
appropriations for services
Nuclear Measurements I Informatics
Support to Safeguards
Support to the Community Bureau of Reference
Training and Education
Valorization of Research Results
Provision of Scientific and Technical Services on Request
Total Spécifie Support to the Commission
± Including a provisional amount of 6.772 reserved for the "PAHR" project.
for the programmé 36.680
The rationalisation measures for the internal:operation of the Centre, which were put in place during the preceding programmes, make possible a type
of research management approaching industrial management, while main­ taining the flexibility necessary for carrying out a scientific activity.
The adoption of the matrix structure in the organisation of the work and
the use of the functional budget, which reproduces the picture of this structure at financial level, are the most significant elements of this rationalisation. It has been completed by the realisation of a unified system by JRC publications . In addition to improving and further developing the tool thus created, efforts under the next programme will be directed mainly towards evaluation of research.
Evaluation of research
For some years, the problems associated with the evaluation of research and the exploitation of results have been receiving increasing attention, and the JRC has been fully conscious of developments in this area. Since it is anxious to make the right choices and assess the true impact of its research, and motivated particularly by the information obtained from the Milan symposium on science and technology policy (1976) and the Copenhagen symposium on the evaluation of research and development (1978) in which it was an active participant, the JRC is gradually setting up a number of pro­ cedures which should provide it with greater insight into the manner in which it fulfils the specific tasks assigned to it and into the exact ex­ tent to which its research forms a valuable part of the entire European R&D network.
Since it began to diversify its programme (1973) and more markedly, during the period 1977-80, the JRC has endeavoured to provide an accurate defi­ nition of the objectives -f its research and the aims of its programme , to assess the implementation periods , the decision points and timetables for the commitment of financial resources and staff.
Corresponding to this definition phase is a phase of monitoring and evaluation in which the effectiveness of the current programme is analysed by the achievement of its objectives and which enables any adjustments which may be necessary to be carried out .
Special attention was given in this connection to the appropriate presentation of records and operational reports.
A system of regular half-yearly reports on the progress of the programme has been set up. Each of these reports describes in particular the ob­ jectives for the period in question, the extent to which these objectives were attained and, where they were not attained, the difficulties en­ countered, reasons for the delay and any re-adjustments which have proved necessary. It also indicates the main important points for the next six months, which will be covered by the following half-yearly reports. As well as being useful for the evaluation of the programme, these reports are also beneficial for the direct administration of the researcfy, since they oblige the researchers to undertake planning of their activities. However, it must be admitted that this planning generally remains fairly rudimentary, being closely dependent on the type of research undertaken.
Another important evaluation factor is the analysis of the budget and
staff allocated to a programme or project. Implementation of the functional
budget makes it possible to divide the entire operating costs of the
Centre among the research objectives. This allocation takes place monthly
on the basis of a financial report which provides details of the costs
of the infrastructure, technical assistance and the scientific teams in­
volved. These costs are allocated to the different projects on the basis
of their respective use of laboratories, teams, and installations; this
utilization is measured, as appropriate, by monthly accounts and predetermined ' weighting coefficients.
The internal management bodies therefore have available a table showing the progress of research and budgetary follow-up information. Four levels of supervision can be identified internally :
- at JRC level : the Director-General assisted by the Programme Management Directorate of the JRC, which participates more in the evaluation of results than in the evaluation of the programme as a result of its responsibilities for coordination with outside bodies;
- within the programme : the Programme Manager', at Ispra, the programme managers form part of a Projects Directorate;
- at project level : the Project Leader;
- at sub-project level : the coordinator of the activity concerned.
In addition to this internal management structure, the General Advisory Committee and the Advisory Committees on Programme Management play an important part in evaluating the programme and their opinions affect the internal decision-making processes.
The evaluation of'programmes,which takes place at the different internal management levels and is followed by outside bodies on the basis of the
progress reports and other available information indicates, where ap­ propriate, any adjustments which are required in planning in terms of objectives, budgets, and workforce.
It should however be noted that in-programme evaluation is only effective to the extent that the different levels of management are capable of in­ troducing the necessary amendments rapidly, i.e. to the extent that they possess corresponding powers , within the limits of the resources and the objectives of the programme as it has been adopted.
2.3. Evaluation of results
In parallel with the in-programme evaluation, the JRC is endeavouring to evaluate the- results of its research, that is to study the effect of its activities on society; this impact may be direct or indirect, immediate or long-term, favourable or unfavourable.
In this analysis, the JRC is confronted by the same difficulties as those facing national research laboratories . Since this impact cannot be quanti­ fied directly, a number of indicators are used; each of these indicators, in isolation, does not provide the desired answer, but taken together they
make it possible to obtain an idea of the extent to which research results are disseminated and used in society. These indicators are linked either to the transfer of information or to cooperation with the outside world.
The first indicators relate to publications (their number, types, quotations from these publications in outside literature) , patents and licences and
training and educational activities , whereas the second concern work under­
taken on behalf of outside bodies under contract or for other Commission
departments, and activities in the field of international cooperation. This
last-mentioned indicator is particularly significant : the direct comparison of ideas and results with those of other laboratories and institutions
which are active in the same field reveals the relative quality of the
work undertaken. This quality can be gauged during "meeting point" activities when symposia, seminars or expert working parties are organized. It
should be pointed out that this quality is recognized in particular by the signature of cooperation agreements relating to specific research to which each partner makes its contribution in equitable fashion. Reference can be made to the active participation of the JRC in recent years in a number of agreements within the InternatioryjEnergy Agency, and the setting up of collaborative projects with the US-Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Lastly, reference must be made to a final indicator to which particular attention is paid by the Director-General and his departments : nam.ely opinionsgenerally delivered by the Advisory Committee on Programme Manage­ ment at the end of each year, which form an assessment of the work con­ ducted under each programme during the preceding 12 months . These moti­ vated technical opinions represent the periodical conclusion of a con­
tinuous review procedure and as a result, a particular significance is attached to them.-
During the 1980-83 programme, the JRC will intensify this aspect of the -evaluation of results by conducting a precise analysis of the variations
of each of these indicators and by studying their particular limitations, for example, the effect of the confidentiality of publications on the dissemination of knowledge, the consequences of granting non-exclusive licences for the interest of potential licencees and the effect of the rigidity of the programme on the possibilities for undertaking work for third parties, etc.
3. Liaison with other institutions and- advisory bodies
From the adoption of the multiannual programme which is currently being implemented the Commission emphasized from the outset the importance it attaches to the existence of a permanent dialogue between the institutions and competent bodies of the Member States and the JRC .
This dialogue mainly takes place during the successive stages of programme and budget preparation, decision-taking and implementation and follow-up, either through the internal or external Advisory Committees or through the mechanisms of the Community institutions.
3.1 . The Advisory Committees set up by the Council or Commission participate in thepreparatoryandexecutionphases. Theyhaveplayedaneffectivepartinthe
launching, development and success or the JRC's activities through their de­ bates, advice and opinions. A list of these Committees £S .
- The Advisory Committees on Programme Management (ACPM) , the role of which was clearly defined in the relevant texts (1) " it shall be the task of each Committee to contribute, in its advisory capacity, to the best possible implementation of the programme for which it is responsible (in particular the detailed definition of projects) and to assess the results and ensure better liaison between the implementation of the programmes
at Community level and the corresponding research and development work being carried out in the Member States".
In addition, where direct and indirect action coexist, these Committees contribute towards the achievement of a coherent structure for the re­ search undertaken.
In spite of a. certain overloading of the structures of the JRC resulting from the extra work, it it undeniable that the contribution made by these Committees has been extremely favourable and has assisted con­ siderably in the successful development of activities .
(1) O.J. C 192, 11.8.1977 - Council Resolution of 18 July 1977 on advisory committees on research programme management.
Examination of future programmes in the light of current programmes reveals that the area of competence of the existing committees needs no, or hardly any,amendment or extension. As a result, it is proposed to retain the ACPMs in their present form as listed programme by pro­ grammeintable4 (p.33). '
- The General Advisory Committee (GAC) set up as part of the reorganization of the Joint Research Centre (1) , the members of which are appointed in accordance with a special Council Resolution (2) .
This Committee which maintains the required contact with prevailing industrial and national scientific policies has played a major part in
the reorganization and efficient exploitation of the JRC. It also makes use of the opinion of the ACPMs and assists the Director-General in pre­ paring programmes and regularly reviewing the current status of activities .
The Gener&l Advisory Committee has recommended that in accordance with their terms of reference, the ACPMs should be consulted on proposals for future programmes. Their Opinions delivered on these proposals appear in the technical annex together with details of each programme.
The General Advisory Committee also held an initial general policy dis­ cussion on future activities , and in a second phase analysed the specific proposals . and delivered the Opinion shown at the end of this document .
- A number of internal Commission committees; these are consulted as part of the interdepartmental coordination of activities which provides the link to sectoraj. policies.
- The Scientific and Technical Committee, whose consultation is provided for in Article 7 of the Euratom Treaty which delivered an Opinion on the nuclear section of the present proposal . This Opinion is also included at the end of the document.
- The Scientific and Technical Research Committee (CREST) which periodically ensures that the role and objectives of the JRC are suitably in accordance with the objectives of and perspectives for a common policy of research on development .
3.2 . Dialogue with the Community institutions mainly occurs at the time of the decision-making procedures relating to proposals for programmes and when the programmes which have been approved are translated into annual budgets .
Naturally, the closest possible relations exist at the level of the different institutional bodies, which are :
- the Council : the Atomic Questions Groups and the Budget Committee.
(1) Commission Decision of 13 January 1971, reorganizing the Joint Research Centre (O.J. L 16, 20.1.1971) .
(2) Resolution of 17 December 1970 by the representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the Council (O.J. L 16, 20.1.1971).
2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
3. Nuclear materials and radio­ active waste management
3. Thermonuclear fusion technology
"Plutonium fuels and actinide research
"Management and storage of radiaoactive waste (in conjunction with indirect action)
A.2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
A. 3 .- Safety of nuclear materials
A.4. Guarantee and management of fissile materials
B.2. Production of hydrogen, storage and transport of energy
C.l. Protection of the environment j
C.2. Remote-sensing from space
4. High-temperature materials I III.Environment and resources
I IV.Measurments, standards and ref­
"Solar energy" (in conjunction with indirect action)
"Production and utilization of hydrogen' (in conjunction with indirect action)
"Fusion and plasma physics" (liaison group of the Fusion Associations)
"Environment and resources" (in conjunction with indirect action, with the assistance of the Standing Committee for Agricultural Re­
search in respect of the section of agricultural resources )
"Reference materials and methods" (in conjuction with the CBR indirect action programme for the non-nuclear section)
"Measurements, standards and reference techniques for the nuclear section
"Fissile materials control "Exploitation of the HFR reactor
B.3. Technology of thermonuclear fusion
V. Service and support activities 1. Informatics
2. Fissile materials control 3. Exploitation of the HFR
D.l. Nuclear measurements
I F.l. Exploitation of the HFR reactor
- the European Parliament : the Committees on Energy and Research, on the Environment and on Budgets including the Sub-Committee on Control of the European Parliament.
• - the Economic and Social Committee : the Section for Energy and Nuclear Questions .
The positions adopted by these institutional bodies have been greatly facilitated in recent years by the substantial preparatory and follow-up activities conducted through the systematic consultation of the Committees which have already been mentioned.
Nevertheless, the whole process of drawing up and adopting research pro­
grammes involves a degree of complexity, rigidity and periods of time which are hardly propitious to the implementation of research activities, which require machinery similar to that employed in industrial management.
1. The multiannual research programme for the JRC is based on Article 7 of the EAEC Treaty or Article 235 of the EEC Treaty, depending on which of the programmes is concerned.
A proposal for a decision is given in Anne~x t.*.
2. This proposal for a decision has been established taking into account the Council Resolution of 17 December 1970 on the detailed rules for
the adoption of research and education programmes (1) .
(1) Official Journal No. L 16, 20 January 1971
adopting a research programme to be implemented by the Joint Research Centre
for the European Atomic Energy Community and for the European Economic Community
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Article 7 thereof,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 235 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission presented after consultation, with regard to nuclear projects, of the Scientific and Technical Committee,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2) ,
Whereas in the context of the common policy relating to the field of science
• and technology the multiannual research programme is one of the principal means
whereby the European Atomic Energy Community can contribute to rapid and safe growth of nuclear industries and to the acquisition and the dissemination of
information in the nuclear field;
Whereas Article 2 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community assigns to the Community inter alia the task of promoting throughout the
Community a harmonious development of economic activities, a continuous and balanced expansion and an increase in stability; whereas the objectives pursue by the Community's activities to this end are set out in Article 3 of the
Whereas the non-nuclear projects provided for by the Decision appear necessary for the attainment of these objectives;
Whereas the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community has not provided powers required for this purpose;
Whereas the Council has adopted a resolution concerning
the coordination of national policies and the definition of Community actions in the field of science and technology (3) ;
Whereas the programme was drawn up in accordance with the Council resolution of 17 Decejnber 1970 concerning the procedures for adopting research and training programmes (4) ;
Whereas the Italian Government has undertaken to take over until 31 December 1980 the ESSOR complex, made available to it by the Commission, within the
meaning of Article 6 (c) of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community;
Whereas it,is in the common interest to further experiments in reactor safety, and the use of the ESSOR complex is necessary to this end;
Whereas article 3 of Council Decision No 77/488/CEE, Euratom of 18 July 1977 provides for a review of the programme during its third year which may lead to a new four-year programme;
A research programme as presented to the Council in Annexes A and B is hereby adopted for a period of four years, as from 1 January 1980.
The commitments for expenditure necessary to implement the programme defined in Annex A are estimated at million european units of account.
(3) Council Resolution of 14 January 1974 (4) O.J. No. L 16, 20.1.1971, p. 13
 _The__nurober of staff is . . members. These figures are intended only las a 3\iide. The_:indicatiye-breakdown of funds and staff is given
The unit of account shall be that defined in the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities.
The programme shall be reviewed during its third year. Such review may lead to a Council Decision on a new four-year programme in accordance with the appropriate procedure.
The dissemination of the information resulting from the implementation of
the non-nuclear parts of the programme shall be carried out in accordance
with Council Regulation (EEC) No. 2380/74 of 17 September 1974, adopting provisions for the dissemination of information relating to research programmes for the European Economic Community (5) .
The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of the programme and, to this end, shall call upon the services of the Joint Research Centre.
The Council decision 77/488/EEC, Euratom is repealed. Done at Brussels,
FOR THE COUNCIL The President
The programme consists of the following eleven projects :
project LOBI : study of loss of coolant accidents in light water reactors;
project SUPER-SARA : an in-pile experiment on the behaviour of light water reactor fuel in the event of loss of coolant;
project LWR primary circuit integrity : early detection of faults in light water reactor vessels;
fast breeder fuel sub-assembly thermohydraulics;
mechanical tests of fast breeder structural materials;
development of fast breeder hypothetical accident codes ;
project PAHR : study of the evacuation of residual heat in a fast breeder molten core;
study of fuel-coolant interaction under accident conditions;
study of the behaviour of structures and containments subjected to accidental stresses;
analysis of reliability and risk assessment.
A.2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research (nuclear activity) The programme consists of the following three projects : - utilization limits of plutonium fuels;
- safety of actinide cycle;
A.3. Safety of nuclear materials (nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following four projects : - risk evaluation
A.4. Fissile materials control and management (nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following four projects :
- acquisition of data for accountancy and materials balance evaluation;
- development of measurement methods - and instrumentation and of methods for theevaluation of the isotopic composition of irradiated fuels;
- containment and surveillance techniques;
- study of safeguards systems for the fuel cycle as a whole .
B.l. Solar Energy (non-nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following four projects :
- solar energy for habitat and low temperature applications - solar power plant materials
- photoelectrochemical and photochemical conversion.
 B.2. Hydrogen production, energy storage and transport (non-nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following three projects : - thermochemical production of hydrogen?
- advanced studies on energy carriers;
B.3. Thermonuclear fusion technology (nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following six projects : - conceptual studies on fusión reactors;
- studies on advanced materials;
- operation of the cyclotron;
- preparatory work for a tritium testing laboratory.
The programme consists of the following three projects : -"high temperature materials information centre;
- materials and engineering studies;
- high temperature materials data bank
C.1. Protection of the environment(non-nuclear activity) The programme consists of the following six projects :
- exposure to chemical products, in particular, indoor pollution and organic substances;
- analyses of air quality;
- analysis of water quality;
- heavy metals pollution and health effects;
- environmental impact of conventional power plants.
Remote sensing from space (non-nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following two projects : - agriculture
- protection of the sea.
Nuclear Measurements (nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following three projects :
- measurement of nuclear data;
- nuclear reference materials and techniques; «
The programme consists of the following two projects : - teleinformatics
Support to safeguards (nuclear activity)
Support to the Community Bureau of Reference (non-nuclear activity) Training and education (non-nuclear activity)
Valorization of research results
Provision of scientific and technical services on request
OPERATION OF LARGE-SCALE INSTALLATIONS (nuclear activity) Operation of the HFR reactor (nuclear activity)
2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
3. Safety of nuclear materials 4. Fissile materials control and
2. Hydrogen production, energy storage and transport
3. Thermonuclear fusion technology 4. High temperature materials
C. -STUDY AND PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT 1. Protection of the environment
2. Remote sensing from space
2. Support to Safeguards
3. Support to the Community Bureau of Reference
4. Training and education
5. Valorization of research results
6. Provision of scientific and technical services on request
* including a provisional amount of 6,77 reserved for the PAHR project
of which staff research
issued at its 25th Meeting (21-22 February 1979) on the multiannual research programme
(1980-1983) of the Joint Research Centre.
In accordance with .Article 6 of the Commission Decision of 13 January 1971 concerning the reorganization of the JRC,
the Director-General established on his own responsibility a preliminary draft of the multiannual programme of the JRC for the years 198Q-1S83.,. This preliminary draft was submit­ ted for Opinion to the General Advisory Committee in two versions (documents CCG 250 and CCG 251).-
After holding an orientation debate at its 24th meeting on 17 January 1979, the General Advisory Committee at its 25-th meeting on 21 and 22 February 1979 under the Chairmanship of Mr. S. AMELINCKX gave a favourable re­ ception to the programmes proposed subject to the com­ ments set out below. It notes that as a whole the propo­ sal corresponds well to the Opinions formulated by the relevant Advisory Committees on Programme Management.
The GAC takes note of the proposal of the Director- General to stabilize the total staff at the level of
2,260 agents, which includes the reinsertion into the programme of 222 persons at present assigned to the exploitation of the ESSOR reactor. This involves an increase in the charges to the Community.
Independently of any question of the programme, it as­ sociates itself with the preoccupations of the JRC as regards the ageing of the staff and encourages the Director- General to formulate proposals to remedy this situation.
The General Advisory Committee takes note of the state­ ment of the JRC that the operational credits set out in documents CCG 250 and CCG 251 represent on average an
increase of only 3 - 4 % in comparison to the average
of the operational credits at net present value allocated to the activities of the JRC as a whole in the 1977, 1978 and 1979 budgets.
The General Advisory Committee makes the following recommendations on each programme :
The General Advisory Committee unanimously recognizes
the importance of this programme and its good coherence with the actions carried out at national level.
The Committee considered at length the problem of the inclusion of the SUPER-SARA project into this programme . It takes note of the low degree of priority attributed
to the project by the relevant ACPM and of the constraints which its execution would impose ; nevertheless, it reco­ gnizes its interest as "insurance" in the event of an un­ favourable technical development in the analysis of acci­ dents in pressurised reactors; it values the possibilities of international cooperation which it offers.
However, it was not able to arrive at a convergence of opinion on this subject; it would have wished, in the ma­ jority, that the option should not be closed during the first two years of the programme. The Italian members are opposed to any temporary solution.
As regards the project in-pile PAHR, the General Advisory Committee recommends that the study of the feasibility of a European experiment should be actively pursued. The ma­ jority requested the provision from the outset of the financial reserves which, in the event of a favourable result of this study and after receipt of the Opinion of the competent instances, would permit the experimental work to be undertaken without delay.
On the rest of the programme, the General Advisory Com­ mittee endorses the recommendations of the relevant ACPM.
The General Advisory Committee takes note with satisfaction of the activities undertaken and expresses a favourable opinion on the programme.
The General Advisory Committee shares the very favourable opinion expressed by the relevant ACPM on projects 1 to 4 of this programme; it emphasizes the importance of using the existing hot cells for experiments of more direct application on industrial scale.
It issues an unfavourable opinion on the decommissioning of the Ispra-1 reactor as set out in project 5 of document CCG 251.
It is for the Director-General to examine whether this de­
commissioning is necessary from safety considerations
and in the light of the actions which will be undertaken in the corresponding indirect action.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable opinion on this programme : it recommends that the in­ crease in staff should be made progressively and in close cooperation with the relevant ACPM.
.It records a particular interest in projects 3 (Confinement and Surveillance Techniques) and 4 ( Safeguards.System. Studies
in the"Nuclear.Fuel Cycle); It emphasizes^the. importance of
cooperation with the IAEA and of the links with the plant operators .
It finally recommends the possible revision of the main lines of the programme after the conclusion of the work of INFCE. v
The General Advisory Committee can associate itself with the level of staff proposed by the Director-General, while recommending a certain caution in the deployment of the teams. It approves the contents of the proposal.
The General Advisory Committee endorses the recommendation
of the relevant ACPM that the maximum of flexibility in
the redirection of this programme should be assured by the introduction of reviews of its contents at appropriate intervals. Certain members wish that- the actions in connection with the European Test Laboratory should be better defined before their start is considered.
The General Advisory Committee shares the favourable opinion issued by the Consultative Committee for Fusion (CCF) on the proposal as a whole. The General Advisory Committee associa­ tes itself with the concern of certain members, and recom­ mends that the evaluation of hybrid reactors should consti­ tute one particular case only of the conceptual studies.
As regards the preparation of a European Tritium Testing Laboratory, the General Advisory Committee in the majority supports the beginning by the JRC at a minimum efficient level of exploratory studies intended to prepare a decision on the creation of this laboratory at the time of the revi­ sion of the five-year (1979-1983) Plasma Physics and Control­ led Thermonuclear Fusion programme.
The General Advisory Committee notes with satisfaction
the harmonious development of the programme and approves the proposal for the new programme. The Committee expres­ ses the wish that a review at a later stage of the possi­ bility of including a large scale test installation should
- take place. Some members of the Committee further emphasize that the staff proposed constitute a strict minimum and could be increased.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable opinion on this programme.
The Committee approves the remote sensing programme with the following recommendations :
a) the"agricultural projects should be closely coordinated
with the Directorates-General of Agriculture and Develop­ ment Aid and with their relevant Committees.
A choice will have to be made between the projects pre­ sented which cannot all be carried out simultaneously.
b) the JRC should limit itself to demonstration operations and should not take upon itself the setting UD of pos­ sible operational systems.
The Committee takes note of the fact that the project "Protection of the Sea" is in conformity with the inter­
national obligations undertaken by the Community (in par­ ticular the Barcelona Convention) .
It records that the activities of the JRC and of the exis­ ting aerospace organizations are complementary and do not constitute duplication of work.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable
opinion on the proposal ; it endorses the recommendations of the relevant ACPM.
The General Advisory Committee regrets the reduction proposed for ESIS and its attribution to another programme, and recommends that the Director-General should review this
Because of the interface with other programmes, the Commit­ tee insists that the ACPMs concerned should keep each other mutually informed.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a generally fa­ vourable opinion on this proposal.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable opinion on this proposal.
One member considers that he cannot take position on the proposal which he regards as not consisting of research.
The majority of the members of the General Advisory Committee note with regret that the proposal consists of a minimal sup­ port to the activities of the Community Bureau of Reference. These members emphasize that the JRC could continue to play a significant role in this field and regret the proposed re­ duction .in the level of activities .
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable opinion on these proposals.
The members concerned of the General Advisory Committee express a favourable opinion on this proposal.
Some members of the General Advisory Committee ask that, in the event of the SUPER-SARA project being abandoned, the JRC should consider for ESSOR a solution which is not, in the short term, decommissioning in the sense of the IAEA.
At its meeting on 5 and 6 March 1979, the Scientific and Technical Committee examined the draft proposal for a 1980-
1983 multiannual programme of the Joint Research Centre (document CCG 250) together with the recommendations of the
General Advisory Committee. The STC has studied in particular the nuclear parts of this programme under article 7 of the EAEC Treaty. •
The STC has taken note with satisfaction of the high degree of international cooperation provided for in the programme.
The STC is concerned by the difficulties resulting from the ageing of the staff and by the obstacles in the way of mobi­ lity of the agents.
It recommends the Commission to prepare measures to remedy this situation.
The STC has generally endorsed the recommendations of the General Advisory Committee, but on certain specific points it has formulated the following particular opinions :
The STC shares the very favourable opinion of the GAC on the Reactor Safety programme executed by the JRC and emphasizes its good coherence with the activities carried out at national level.
The STC's discussion was concentrated above all on the
SUPER-SARA project, the usefulness of which it recognizes, and a decision for which it considers should be made with­ out delay.
The STC has taken note of the relatively low degree of priority attributed to this programme by the relevant ACPM. On the other hand it has taken into consideration
the particular context in which this project is presented and of the possibilities of international cooperation which it offers.
The STC emphasizes that the validity of this programme is connected with its execution as soon as possible. The Committee further draws attention to the scope and complexity of this undertaking, which will require a special effort.
Taking account of all these elements, the Scientific
and Technical Committee issues a favourable opinion
on the SUPER-SARA project. «
As for the project in-pile PAHR, the STC recommends that a feasibility study of an in-pile experiment in this field should be actively pursued. In the event of a favourable result of this study, a decision should be taken quickly to enable the work to begin without delay.
The Committee expresses its appreciation of the excellent work carried out by the JRC in the production of hydrogen. It notes that according to the conclusions of this work, the route of pure thermochemical reactions is not econo­ mic in the foreseeable future.
It also notes the reduction of interest in this route due to the progress, slower than foreseen, in the de­ velopment of HTR reactors.
Consequently, the Committee approves the decision of the Commission to reduce the scope of the Hydrogen programme and to reapply the effort to the problems of energy storage.
The Committee insists on the priority to be given to the commissioning and utilization of the cyclotron.
In conclusion the Scientific and Technical Committee expresses a favourable opinion on the draft proposal for a 1980-1983 multiannual programme of the Joint Research Centre.
P.J. Fiche financière revisee.
Chapter 33 - Research and investment expenditure. Article 330 - Joint Research Centre (JRC) -
Complementary programme. Title of action :
Research programme to be implemented by the Joint Research Cervtre for the European Atomic Energy Community and for the European Economic Community (1980-1983).
Article 7 of the Treaty establishing the EAEC. Article 235 of the Treaty establishing the EEC.
The continuation of activities in progress, with certain changes of emphasis and direction to adapt the research
to the evolution in the requirements of the Community
and to developments in the Commission's sectoral policies, to take account of the research carried out in the indirect
action programmes, and more generally to draw the lessons from the experience gained.
The valorization for the benefit of the Community as a whole and of the JRC of the investments made in the ac­
tivities undertaken, and the optimization of the use of its resources by their increased concentration on activi­ ties of significant dimension.
 - Support to Safeguards
- Support to the Community Bureau of Reference - Training and Education
- Valorization of Research Results • - -
To carry out research in the following areas :
"Nuclear Safety and the Fuel Cycle", consisting of four programmes :
- Plutonium Fuels and Actinide Research
- Safety of Nuclear Materials
- Fissile Materials Control and Management.
"New Energies", consisting of four programmes :
- Hydrogen Production, Energy Storage and Transport - Thermonuclear Fusion Technology
- High Temperature Materials.
"Study and Protection of the Environment", consisting of two programmes :
- Protection of the Environment
- Remote Sensing from Space.
"Nuclear Measurements", consisting of a single programme.
"Specific Support to the Sectoral Activities of the Commission", consisting of six programmes : " - Informatics
•' • - Provision of Scientific and Technical Services on Request.
-"Operation of large scale installations".,'.consisting of the programme for the operation of the HFR reactor".
To contribute to the promotion throughout the Community of the harmonious development of economic activities, in ac­ cordance with the objectives of the activities of the Com­ munity for this puposes (articles 2 and 3 EEC) .
To contribute to the creation of the conditions necessary for the growth of nuclear industries and to the acquisition and dissemination of information in the nuclear field (ar­
ticles 1 and 4 EAEC) .
To satisfy the Council Resolution of 14 January, 1974 on the coordination of national policies and the definition
of Community actions in the field of science and technology.
 5.2. Partition of financing :
100 % to the charge of the Community budget.
5.3. Multiannual expenditure timetable 5.3.!•_!.. Commitment_aggropriations
Nature of expenditure
Nature of expenditure
5.1 . Total cost during the period foreseen (4 years from 1.1.1980 to 31.12.1983) : 542f6 MEUA.
The expenditure timetables accord with the planning of the new programme.
Comparison year by year with expenditure of the same type under the current 1977-80 programme would not be meaningful since several research activities included in the new programme did
not figure in the previous programme , although being accounted for in the chapter 33 or other chapters of the budget.
These activities are in particular those in support of the sectoral policies of the Commission and those of physical
protection of the establishments and of operation of the ESSOR reactor.
This presentation conforms with the wish of the Budgetary Authority for greater transparency in the budget.
After the investment phase of the years 1978 and 1979 , the expenditure on physical protection of the establish­
ments becomes essentially that of expenditure on upkeep and operation of the installations. It seems logical on this count to consider it as a further general service expenditure .
Further , the new programme includes new research activities which require important investments, in particular reactor safety, safety of nuclear materials and fusion technology.
Consequently the commitment appropriations of the preceding programme remaining at the end of 1979 will be annulled
by the budgetary procedure.
Requirements have been evaluated on the basis of 2,260 agents paid from research appropriations.
Further, and in view of probable overall personnel departures from 1980 to 1983 (natural departures in application of a possible early retirement scheme) , certain transitional measures are proposed of a type to promote rejuvenation
and correction of the skill profile of the personnel. The JRC would be enabled to have at its disposal from
1980 and in excess of its authorised staff level 70 posts
in anticipation of the effects of these departures. The Commission would undertake to restore this excess of staff to normal within a reasonable time and in any case before the last year of the programme.
On the practical level, these transitional measures could be the subject of a special agreement of the Budgetary • Authority, and would find a temporary solution in the
staff table. The Commission for its part would undertake to manage these posts in the best joint interest and would keep the Budgetary Authority regularly informed.
On these bases and in accordance with the hypotheses adopted by the Commission for the 1979 budget for the development of remunerations, the total cost of personnel expenditure has been estimated at 282 MEUA at the remuneration level foreseen at 1 January 1980.
The Italian contribution for the ESSOR personnel in 1980, estimated at 6 MEUA, should be deducted from this total, giving a total personnel cost under the programme of 276 MEUA at 1 January 1980. After each decision of the Council
modifying the levels of remunerations, the Commission will re-evaluate this expenditure and will inform the Budgetary Authority of the corresponding incidence of this re- evaluation on the programme enveloppe.
b) Operational and Investment Expenditure :
Requirements have been estimated at 266.6 MEUA. This
amount represents a flat-rate evaluation expressed at current ^980-1983 values. These appropriations, contrary to the present situation, cover all activities of the JRC, including those carried out on behalf of other Directorate- Generals. This proposed presentation corresponds to the development of the budget structure as wished by the Budgetary Authority.
The following table sets out the distribution of the envelope and staff between the proposed programmes as in the draft decision :
personnel of all categories directly allocated to the objective in question.
- Column 2 (Agents) : total personnel attributed to the objective, i.e. personnel of the 1st column plus a proportion of the personnel of the general services and infrastructure in general support of the research.
- Column 3 (specific programme appropriations) : this represents in budgetary terms the appropriations inscribed in primary imputations for each objective, i.e. the appro­ priations directly allocated to the realisation of the objective .
On average they consist of :
36.5% costs of technical operation
33.5% current and large scale investments
30% study and evaluation contracts in direct support of
the research to reinforce the link with economic and industrial realities and to allow skills lacking in
the JRC in highly specialised fields to be complemented.
 These appropriations are evaluated on the basis of requirements as established and amounts as allocated during the 1978 and 1979 budgets. To these are added forecasts of requirements for the development of main objectives, for example in reactor safety and fusion technology .
- Column 4 (specific appropriations for services) :
this represents in budgetary terms the appropriations inscribed in primary imputation for the appropriation accounts covering the expenditure of the different general
services (computing centre, large-scale installations, workshops, general infrastructure) .
These appropriations largely cover routine expenditure and their evaluation is based on experience in recent years . \
- Column 5 (total appropriations) : this represents .the total of columns 3 and 4 and of total personnel expend­ iture on each objective.
In the complex structure of the functional budget the evaluation of appropriations is entered on a double entry system with one part showing expenditure by destination and the other by type.
Computer processing gives results which appear very precise, but which are in practice no more than evaluations.
Safety of Nuclear Materials
1FissileMaterialsControl and Management
Hydrogen Production, Energy Storage and Transport
Thermonuclear Fusion Technology
High Temperature Materials
Protection of the Environment
Remote Sensing from Space
Total Protection of the Environment
Nuclear Measurements
Support to Safeguards
Support to the Community Bureau of Reference
Training and Education
Valorisation of Research Results
Provision of Scientific and Technical Services on Request
Total Spécifie Support to the Commission
J for the programme '
± including a provisional amount of 6.772 reserved for the "PAHR" project.
appropriations in million EUA
Specific appropriations
Spécifie appropriations for services
and investments
The total of 542,6 MEUA includes a provisional amount of 6,77 MEUA for a particular project in the Reactor Safety programme (PAHR project) , to be begun in 1982 in the event of favourable opinions from the relevant Consultative Committees .
Since a joint programme is essentially involved, it is financed by the normal resources of the budget.
The operation of the HFR reactor (point F of the preceeding table) has so far been the subject of a complementary pro­ gramme financed by the Federal Republic of Germany and the Netherlands according to a financial partition key of 50 %- 50 % .
In order not to prejudge the position of member states on this programme, the Commission should present it in a man­ ner analogous to the other actions.
On the other hand, the operation of the ESSOR reactor will not be further financed by the Italian Government after 31.12.1980 .
The programme provides for its utilization after this date for a joint reactor safety programme.
- Control of the execution of the programme by the Advisory Committees on Programme Management and the General Advisory Committee of the- JRC. •
- Control of the financial management by the Financial Control (DG XX) .
- Control by the Court of Auditors.
- Control by the Budgetary Authority on the occasion of the discharge relating to the annual budget.
Results of special Chefs de Cabinet's meeting, Thursday 15 March 1979
As arranged at the weekly meeting on Monday 12 March 1979»
the Chefs de Cabinet met on Thursday 15 March, with the President's Chef de Cabinet, Mr Tickell, in the chair, to consider the above
matter with a view to the Commission 's approving it by expedited written procedure.
Mr Kiihn, Mr Dablanc, Mr Andreasen, Mr Locurcio, Mr Beereboom, Mr Nicora, Mr Becker, Miss Varese, Mr Rutsaert, Mr Bisarre;
The following conclusions were reached.
1. At the end of the discussion it was agreed that the expedited written procedure could be opened ; the Chefs de Cabinet would
suggest that it close at 12 noon on Monday 19 March 1979-
The Commission would be asked to approve Docs. COM(79)121 + /2, which the Chefs de Cabinet had here been discussing, and the amendments they had made to these (see annex to Doc. C0M(79)121/^).
2. It was agreed that in connection with the preparation of the next Council session of Research Ministers the Commission should
be provided with a background memo drawn up on instructions from Mr Brunner giving a general picture of the Community's research programme, its priorities, financing and relation to the national programmes.
 The following modifications have been made to the texts enclosed with documentsCOM(79) 121/and COM(79) 121/2 :
On page 2, paragraph 4, Justification of the action, replace
the first sub-paragraph "To contribute to the promotion.... EEC". by
"To contribute to the :
- long-term supply of resources (raw materials, energy, agriculture and water) ;
- promotion of internationally competitive economic development; - improvement of the living and working conditions;
- protection of the environment~and nature."
1) On page 2, replace the first sub-paragraph "It is generally recognized ... entrusted to it" by :
"On the basis of the results of the first two years of the execution of the present programme, a positive development
as a whole can be noted, and in particular that the Centre
is better integrated into the context of the sectoral policies of the Community."
2) On page 2, after the last sub-paragraph, insert the following sub-paragraph :
"It should be recalled in this connection that the JRC's activity until 1972 was entirely devoted to the nuclear field/
a gradual evolution has allowed a balanced solution to be reached, with half of the activities remaining in the nuclear field, and the other half concerning other research sectors."
3) On page 4, the last sub-paragraph of paragraph 4 "The inclusion .... Italy" is replaced by the following :
"The inclusion of this project into the Community programme does not imply a substantial increase in the budgetary volume of the JRC's activities as this appears in Chapter 33 of the Budget. But.it obviously represents an increase in costs
to the 8 Member States other than Italy, since financing
of the costs of the ESSOR complex has assured by the Italian Government until the present. This financing is still
assured for 1980 for the operation of the complex, and the Italian Government has further undertaken to finance
the continuation of the construction of the SARA Loop until
its completion in 1980, provided that there is a positive Council Decision in 1979.
Nevertheless , the experimental programme of the utilisation of the Loop requires in addition investments within the Community programme from the beginning of 1980. Postpone­ ment of these investments to 1981 would seriously compromise the experimental time-table. This in turn would reduce appreciably international interest in this programme, where the time factor is of prime .importance . "
4) On pages 4 and 5, replace paragraph 5 "Staff level" in the following :
A total level of JRC staff of 2,260 agents during the new programme is proposed. This level is the same as that fixed for the end of the preceding programme inclusive
of the 222 agents consisting of the staff allocated to
the ESSOR complex. In fixing this level the Commission is respecting the decision taken previously to reduce the JRC staff by 80 posts in 4 years .
Concern remains with regard to the ageing of the staff as a whole and to the insufficient renewal of their scientific and technical skills. New recrutement is possible only within the limits of natural departures , i.e. 40-50 per year. In order to help in readjusting the staff profile at the beinning of the new programme, certain transitional measures are proposed.
These involve allowing the JRC to have available from the first year of the programme (1980) and in excess of the authorized staff level 70 posts in anticipation of the effects of natural departures.
The Commission would undertake to restore the staff to the authorized level before the last year of the pro­
gramme. The cost of this operation would not exceed 2 % of the total staff expenditure."
The pages of this communication which have been corrected are
attached as an annex together with indications in the margin of the corrections.
It should be noted that the word "Valorization" has been replaced throughout the text by the word "Utilization" in conformity with the terminology used in the 12th General Report.
1. This document is a formal proposal for a new multiannual programme of the Joint Research Centre, covering a four-year period from 1980 to 1983 inclusive.
With effect from 1 January 1980, it will prolong and replace the current four-year programme, which was started on 1 January 1977 and in principle will terminate on 31 December 1980.
2. The Council Decision of 18 July 1977 (1) adopting a research programme to be carried out by the Joint Research Centre on behalf of the European Atomic Energy Community and the. European Economic Community
(1977-1980) makes provision for the programme to be reviewed during the third year (1979) .
It also provides that the review may lead to the adoption by the Council of a new four-year programme in accordance with the appropriate procedure .
3. After reviewing the activities in progress, their stage of advancement, the results achieved, the difficulties encountered, and the
prospects they hold out in view of the evolution of requirements ,
the Commission considers it expedient to make certain adjustments and reorientations, and to launch a number of major operations.
4. Accordingly, it is proposing the adoption of the new multiannual programme (198Q-r83) of the Joint Research Centre, which is described below in
terms of its justification, structure, objectives and funding.
B. The role of the Joint Research Centre
Over the last 5 years , the JRC has gone through a period of reorientation which, in co-operation with its consultative bodies, has led to the definition of a clearer role for it and of the activities to be
carried out under it.
The results of the first two years of the programme have led the
JRC to conclude that its role is developing in the right direction, that it is integrated better than in the past into the context of the sectoral policies of the Community, and that the JRC has the capacity to execute the tasks which have been entrusted to it.
(L ) Official Journal L 200 of 8 August 1977
C. Lessons from the current programme
The following assessments can be made from the results of the present research programme, which is being carried out in close association with the indirect action programme :
The execution of this, the largest programme among the JRC's ac­ tivities, is being carried forward with success. The construction
of the LOBI loop has been completed and plans should be made to exploit the considerable investment which this represents through
an extensive experimental programme culminating in in-pile experiments . Whole-core accident, fuel-coolant interaction and post-accident heat removal problems are receiving increased attention. The prospects of cooperation in this area of research with the United States' Nuclear Regulatory Commission highlight the value of the JRC's work. More emphasis will also be laid on the more theoretical activity of re­ liability and risk assessment. The concern voiced in some political circles and by the general public on the development of nuclear energy can only serve to emphasize the value of this area of research;
2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
Again in the context of concernfor nuclear safety, JRC activity
in this highly specialized field is centred on long-term objectives. Work is proceeding according to schedule. No external or internal factor would seem to suggest that the present policy should be amended.
3. Management of nuclear materials and radioactive waste
It would appear that the part of this programme which deals with chemxcal separation and transmutation of actinides will soon reach a stage where a decision will have to be taken at both Community and world level on the continuation of this alternative option to current waste management me­ thods .
The models for assessing the long-term risks of radioactive waste storage are being given practical application in certain specific geographical sites. Itmay'thereforebeconsideredthatthispartoftheprogrammeis entering into a phase of active application. The problems posed by radio­ active waste throughout the fuel cycle require deeper study and offer development potential.
Lastly, the work jan reactor component decontamination is directed towards the general line- of decommissioning of nuclear plants, a preoccupation which is beginning ,to make itself felt at world level. In view of this trend, new developments should be considered in the
The "Habitat and thermal conversion" project is being actively carried forward in conjunction with the Indirect Action programme and within the International Energy Agency1s Implementing Agreement on solar energy;
the prime importance of the JRC's work in this field is widely recognized.
The construction of the European Solar Test Installation (ESTI) is nearing completion. Its elements should come into operation progressively during 1979; the task will then be to exploit in 1980 this substantial investment for the benefit of European research bodies and industry.
It would appear quite justified to intensify this programme.
The programme is designed to play a special role in the provision of ser­ vices in favour of the developing countries. This provision of services is derived in particular from the Communication of the Commission to the Council (1) on energy co-operation with the developing countries.
1978 has been marked by a"world firsf'with the putting into operation
of a closed-circuit loop corresponding to the MK 13 (H2S04/HBr) cycle. The JRC also plays the role of project leader in the production of
hydrogen within the International Energy Agency and international co­ operation is being vigorously established in this field.
Whereas the technical obstacles to producing hydrogen from water are being progressively overcome , the fact still remains that any pros­ pects for economic competitivity are long-term ones. In this perspec­ tive thought should be given to the method to be adopted to
maintain technical knowledge at an adequate level until such time as
it can be applied on anindustrial scale. The problems of hydrogen trans­ port and storage, for their part, retain constant world-wide attention
as this energy vector is of considerable technical and economic interest and is. environmentally positive.
6. Thermonuclear fusion technology
The conceptual studies of a future demonstration reactor are being continued : the JRC is making efforts to assemble the European laboratories interested in these studies. The engineering problems are being tackled in a practical manner with research in materials for post-JET machines .
(1) COM (78) 355 .final of 31 July 1978.
 9. Measurements, standards and reference techniques (METRE)
In the nuclear field, the Central Bureau of Nuclear Measurements is successfully maintaining its central position in the highly
specialized scientific area of nuclear standards. Since the trend
in the work load in this field is hardly on the decrease, here
again the problem of selecting objectives and optimizing resources and existing capacities arisesi in so far as the non-nuclear part of the METRE programme is concerned and leaving aside support tor the Community Bureau of Reference (CBR) , the question is to determine how far the activities which the JRC has carried out so far tally with its specific role as described above in view of the development of cooperation in this field.
10o Service and support activities
During both 1977 and 1978 the Commission has widely used the JRC 's scientific and technical expertise both in connection with develop­
ment policy and participation in INFCE, in the form of support for
the inspections of the Safeguards Directorate and in the evaluation
of demonstration programmes. Resources allocated to these various
tasks already appear too limited to satisfy the demand. Other activities, such as the informatics research programme or training and education tasks,are producing positive results and should be continued. Lastly,
the operation of the HFR reactor continues as an example of one of the JRC's public service rolesin the sector of large-scale in­ stallations .
The Advisory Committees on Programme Management have been called upon at regular intervals to give Opinions on the execution of the present programme. These Opinions have been transmitted to the Council and to the Commission according to the relevant legal provisions.
These Opinions reflect the positive views of the experts of the Member States on the execution of the activities for which they are competent.
The discussions on which the Opinions were based have largely inspired the analysis set out above.
 d) launch a limited number of new projects (storage and transport of energy, indoor pollution in the protection of the environment, solar power stations, and the tritium testing laboratory i-n fusion ^technology) .
e) and lastly follow up the activities in progress under the 1977-80 programme for the remainder of the topics envisaged, the only adjustments being those called for by management experience
or by changing requirements.
All in all, the evolution of the programme is more apparent in the breadth and quality of the projects to be carried out than in the areas it embraces.
At a first evaluation, half of the programmes proposed can be considered as a, continuation of present activities, though with certain adjustments (as set out above) required either by the experience of managing the programmes or by the evolution of requirements. The other half of the programmes represents a significant evolution, whether totally new actions (some 10% of the total), or, within the same research-areas, a significant development in their direction or in the nature of the work under­ taken (some 40% of the total) , or thirdly actions which are substantially reduced (a small percentage) .
The programme centres around six research areas (as against five in the 1977-80 programme) :
The area "Nuclear Safety and the Fuel Cycle" is subdivided into four programmes :
A.2. Plutonium Fuels and Actinide Research
A.3. Safety of Nuclear Materials
A.4. Safeguards and Management of Fissile Materials
The fact that the programme on Safeguards and Management of Fissile Materials comes under this heading rather than among the support projects is due to the scale of the research that needs to be done and its potential value as a support to the work of the IAEA.
The area "Future Forms of Energy" is again subdivided into four programmes :
B.2. Hydrogen Production, Storage and Transport of Energy B.3. Thermonuclear Fusion Technology
B.4. High Temperature Materials f
Programme B.2. takes account of the evolution of the work, and provides for the research to be extended to techniques of storing energy in forms other than hydrogen.
As the most ambitious of the JRC programmes, the reactor safety programme utilizes the nuclear facilities of the Centre to the full.
For the most part, the research is of a confirmative nature and
is intended to back up the work of the licensing authorities with experiments and detailed theoretical analyses. Apart from some activities of a horizontal nature in areas common to every type of reactor, the projects are mainly focused on the safety aspects of light water reactors and of liquid metal cooled fast breeder reactors. The emphasis of the programme is on a few major experi­ ments, simulating abnormal events of very low probability but with significant consequences. ,
In addition to the licensing authorities a programme of this type meets the requirements of the power plant operators'and of the nuclear con­ struction industry.
The programme breaks down into eleven projects - a large number, but one that in no way implies dispersal of resources, but rather the intensity of the effort devoted to this field.
a) Projects more specific to light water reactors :
- project LOBI : an experimental out-of-pile study of the loss-of- coolant phenomenon in light water reactors;
- project SUPER-SARA : an in-pile experiment simulating the behaviour of light water reactor fuel in the event of coolant loss;
- projet LWR primary circuit integrity : early detection of faults in light water reactor vessels;
b) projects more specific to breeder reactors :
- project LMFBR subassembly thermohydraulics : modelling of the thermohydraulic behaviour of fuel assemblies in abnormal situations;
- project LMFBR niechanical tests : study of certain aspects of the behaviour of structural materials;
- project EAC : development of codes to describe scenarios of abnormal situations;
- projects PAHR and PAHR in-pile : theoretical and experimental study of molten core behaviour, including in-pile tests. In accordance with the opinion of the General Advisory Committee,
some of these tests are to be the subject of a special decision during the course of the programme.
- project CONT : study on the behaviour of structures and contain­ ments subjected to accident stresses.
- project FCI : study of fuel-coolant interaction under accident conditions ;
ProJsct Reliability and Risk Assessment : analysis and collection of data on reactor reliability and risk assessment.
It should be noted that this "Reactor Safety" programme is intended to include a large element of international co-operation, with the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission co-operating in the FCI, SUPER-SARA and PAHR projects, and EPRI (Electric Power Research Institute, USA) and JAERI (Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute) in the SUPER-SARA
programme. It should be further recalled that the LOBI project has been financed at the start by the German Research Ministry.
A.2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
This programme comes partly under the heading of fast reactor fuel development and partly under that of fundamental research on acti­ nides. It is mainly being conducted in the specialized laboratories of the European Institute at Karlsruhe, and is subdivided into three projects :
- Utilization limits of plutonium fuels : their behaviour is studied under normal and abnormal conditions;
- Safety of the plutonium fuel cycle : theoretical and experimental studies will endeavour to provide an answer to some of the problems raised by the presence of transuranium elements in
the fuel cycle;
- Actinide research : a study of chemical bonding in solid actinides. This long-term basic research takes the form of fundamental theoretical studies backed up by solid state physics experiments on pure samples prepared and characterized in the laboratory.
A.3. Safety of nuclear materials
The programme centres chiefly on problems relating to the treatment
and temporary or permanent storage of radioactive waste . The aim of the theoretical and experimental research is the safety evaluation
of waste management procedures.
The programme is divided into four projects :
- Risk evaluation : study of safe waste management techniques;
- Protective barriers : study of natural and artificial barriers to the migration of radionuclides into the biosphere;
- Actinide separation and actinide monitoring : studies of the chemical insulation and control of these very long-life elements .
In this programme, the use of hot cells will be considered for experiments with a more direct application on industrial scale .
Moreover, with regard to the decommissioning of the Ispra I reactor,
which ought.by its nature to come within the scope of this programme,
the Director-General reserves the right, in accordance with the opinion
of the General Advisory Committee, to examine the decommissioning operations
from the viewpoint of safety requirements and in the light of other projects in this field which are to be carried out under the corresponding indirect
The operation of the reactor will continue to the benefit of the research programmes of the participating Member States (fuel be­ haviour, basic physics experiments, isotope production) and for the JRC's own requirements (Pu fuels programme, fusion programme, reactor safety programme) . Outside customers will also be able to use the irradiation facilities on payment.
During the next programme, the teams will continue to maintain and upgrade the reactor, and to develop and improve the irradiation equipment and apparatus to enable this installation to keep its position among the Community's most important irradiation means.
The programmes in relation to the JRC's tasks
The table 1 (p. 21.) gives an overview of the manner in which each of the programmes described above relates to one or other of the aspects of the JRC's role within the common policy on science and
In addition to the three essential tasks -central role, public service, support for the Commission –a particular heading
indicates the programmes which are connected to an existing indirect action or other actions of the Commission. A particular co-ordination affort obviously takes place within the services of the Commission before this co-ordination is submitted to examination by the external consultative bodies.
 - Nuclear safety and the fuel cycle
- Future forms of energy
- Study and protection of the environment
- Nuclear measurements
- Specific support to the Commission 's sectoral activities
- Operation of large-scale installations
An indicative breakdown of funds and staff between the proposed pro­ grammes is given in the table 3 (p. 27) . Moreover, each of the tech­
nical sheets in the Annex gives a detailed breakdown of the requirements for staff and specific appropriations (investments, operating expendi­ ture and contracts) for the programme in question. It should be noted that the contracts to be concluded by the JRC will not overlap at any point with those of the indirect action programme.
b) The allocation of resources between the six research topics in the programme is as follows :
This means that 74 % of the total funds is concentrated in the
field of energy and the environment, whilst the remaining 26 % is mainly to cover the JRC's public service functions.
It should be recalled in this connection that the JRC's activity until 1972
was entirely devoted to the nuclear field. A gradual evolution has allowed
a balanced solution to be reached, with half of the activities remaining in the nuclear field, and the other half concerning other research sectors
c) In comparison with the preceeding programme, the ratio between staff expenditure and scientific and technical operating expenditure has been slightly adjusted in favour of the latter, mainly because of the beginning of major technological programmes. The proportions are 51% and 49% respectively.
The table below summarizes the general distribution of funds (estimated : not entirely accurate due to computer processing) .
Table 2 - Distribution of funds into main categories
B.l. Spécifie scientific appropriations 89.6
B.2. Specific support appropriations (infrastructure and laboratory
* Including the provisional amount of 6.77 million EUA reserved for the PAHR project.
Whereas the non-nuclear projects provided 'for by the Decision appear necessary fcr the attainment of these objectives;
Whereas the Treaty establishing the European Econotaic Community has not provided powers required for this purpose;
Whereas the Council has adopted a resolution concerning
the coordination of national policies and the definition of Community actions in the field of science and technology (3);
Whereas the programme was drawn up in accordance with the Council resolution of 17 December 1970 concerning the procedures for adopting research and training programmes (4) ;
Whereas the Italian Government has undertaken to take over until 31 December 1980 the ESSOR complex, made available to it by the Commission, within the
meaning of Article 6 (c) of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community;
Whereas it is in the common interest to further experiments in reactor safety, and the use of the ESSOR complex is necessary to this end;
Whereas article 3 of Council Decision Nr 77/488/CEE, Euratom of 18 July 1977 provides for a review of the programme during its third year which may lead to the adoption of a new four-year programme;
A research programme as presented in Annexes A and B is hereby adopted for a period of four years, as from 1 January 1980.
The global requirements for the total duration of the programme as given in Annex A are estimated at 542.62 million European units of account and a staff of 2,260 agents, the European unit of account being defined in Article 10 of
the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977.
(3) Council Resolution of 14 January 1974. (4) O.J. Nr L 16, 20.1.1971, p. 13.
 These figures have an indicative vaiae QUJ.J •
The indicative breakdown of funds and staff is given in Annex B.
The programme shall be reviewed during its third year. Such review cay lead to a Council Decision on a new four-year programme in accordance with the appropriate procedure.
The dissemination of the information resulting from the implementation or
the non-nuclear parts of the programme shall be carried out in accordance
with Council Regulation (EEC) No. 2380/74 of 17 September 1974, adopting provisions for the dissemination of information relating to research programmes for the European Economic Community (5).
The Commission shall be responsible for the implementation of the prograime and, to this end, shall call upon the services of the Joint Research Centre.
The Council decision 77/488/EEC, Euratom is repealed.
FOR THE COUNCIL The President
(2) ECDIN : Environmental Chemicals Data and Information Network. (3) OCS : Ocean Colour Scanner.
Technologie de j.a rusion The nzonuc léa ire
A. SURETE NUCLEAIRE ET CYCLE DU COMBUSTIBLE
2. Personalbestand 23
6. Technologie der thermonuklearen Fusion
(2) ECDIN : Environmental Chemicals Data and Information Network (3) OCS : Ocean Colour Scanner ~~ –
B.3. Thermonukleare Fusionstechnologie
Aktinid for schung
B.3. Technologie der thermonuklearen Fusion
- in pile-Versuch PAHR;
3. Therroonukleare Fusionstechnologie
(2) ECDIN : Environmental Chemicals Data and Information Network. (3) OCS : Ocean Colour Scanner.
(2) ECDIN : Environmental Chemicals Data and Information Network (3) OCS : Ocean Color Scanner
( presented
by the
to the
A. Proposai for a new multiannual programme 1980-1983 B. The role of the Joint Research Centre
C. Lessons from the current programme
5. The programmes in relation to the JRC s tasks
1 . Commencement and duration of the programme 2. Staff
3. Programme allocation and budget appropriations C. Implementation procedures
2. Evaluation of research
3. Liaison with other institutions and advisory bodies
II. Opinion of the General Advisory Committee
III. Opinion of the Scientific and Technical Committee
1. This document is a formal proposal for a new multiannual programme of the Joint Research Centre, covering a four-year period from 1980 to 1983 inclusive.
With effect from 1 January 1980, it will prolong and replace the current four-year programme, which was started on 1 January 1977 and in principle will terminate on 31 December 1980.
2. The Council Decision of 18 July 1977 (1) adopting a research programme to be carried out by the Joint Research Centre on behalf of the European Atomic Energy Community and the European Economic Community
(1977-1980) makes provision for the programme to be reviewed during the third year (1979).
It also provides that the review may lead to the adoption by the Council of a new four-year programme in accordance with the appropriate procedure .
3. After reviewing the activities in progress, their stage of advancement, the results achieved, the difficulties encountered, and the
prospects they hold out in view of the evolution of requirements ,
the Commission considers it expedient to make certain adjustments and reorientations, and to launch a number of major operations.
4. Accordingly, itis proposing the adoption of the newmultiannual programme (1980-r83) of the Joint Research Centre, which is described below in
terms of its justification, structure, objectives and funding.
B. The role of the Joint Research Centre
Over the last 5 years , the JRC has gone through a period of reorientation which, in co-operation with its consultative bodies, has led to the definition of a clearer role for it and of the activities to be
carried out under it.
The results of the first two years of the programme have led the
JRC to conclude that its role is developing in the right direction, that it is integrated better than in the past into the context of the _ sectoral policies of the Community, and that the JRC has the capacity., to execute the tasks which have been entrusted to it.
CL ) Official Journal L 200 of 8 August 1977
The Commission has recently described the JRC's role within the Community science and technology policy (1) .
It can be summarized as follows :
The execution of programmes of a "central" nature : the concentration of the JRC on research activities - which justify the establishment of a broad research potential at Community level, - which call for the centralization of facilities or functions (e.g. by the creation of large-scale installations ) , - in which the JRC can act as a focal point or catalyst for co-ordination at Community level, - and finally in which it can promote the application of new technologies through­ out the Community.
The performance of a public service role : the JRC is developing this by meeting the needs of Government organizations, universities and industry for specialized equipment, know-how, products and services. A significant factor in this respect is the independent position of the JRC and its impartial judgment.
The provision of services to the Commission : the JRC can act as the Commission 's own tool in the provision to it of scientific and tech­ nical expertise and support in the formulation and implementation of the sectoral policies of the Communities. An important new development in this respect is the contribution which the JRC can make to scienti­ fic and technical co-operation with the developing countries within the development policies of the Community.
In order to consolidate this role and in view of the results m the
last two years in the execution of the present programme , the JRC considers that its new programme should broadly represent a continuation of the present one. But, at the same time, the research carried out under this programme requires certain changes of emphasis and direction due to the attainment of certain milestones , or because it is proving necessary to adapt this research to the evolution in the requirements
of the Community and to developments in the Commission's sectoral poli­ cies; or to take into account the development of research carried out under the indirect action programmes; or finally to.draw lessons ge­ nerally from the experience it has acquired.
In this last respect, the JRC has been particularly guided by the
concern to ensure continuity in its research to enable the Community
as a whole and itself to make full use of the investments made in the ac­
tivities put in hand under the present programme , and by the need to optimize the use of its resources by concentrating them further into activities of significant dimension.
(1) Communication from the Commission to the Council of 30 June 1974 "Common Policy for Science and Technology" - see Supplement 3/77 to the Bulletin of the European Communities.
C. Lessons from the current programme
The following assessments can be made from the results of the present research programme, which is being carried out in close association with the indirect action programme :
The execution of this, the largest programme among the JRC's ac­ tivities, is being carried forward with success. The construction
of the LOBI loop has been completed and plans should be made to
exploit the considerable investment which this represents through
an extensive experimental programme culminating in in-pile experiments. Whole-core accident, fuel-coolant interaction and post-accident heat removal problems are receiving increased attention. The prospects of cooperation in this area of research with the United States' Nuclear Regulatory Commission highlight the value of the JRC's work. More emphasis will also be laid on the more theoretical activity of re­ liability and risk assessment. The concern voiced in some political circles and by the general public on the development of nuclear energy can only serve to emphasize the value of this area of research;
2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
Again in the context of concernfor nuclear safety, JRC activity
in this highly specialized field is centred on long-term objectives. Work is proceeding according to schedule. No external or internal factor would seem to suggest that the present policy should be amended.
3. Management of nuclear materials and radioactive waste
It would appear that the part of this programme which deals with chemical separation and transmutation of actinides will soon reach a stage where a decision will have to be taken at both Community and world level on the continuation of this alternative option to current waste management me­ thods .
The models for assessing the long-term risks of radioactive waste storage are being given practical application in certain specific geographical sites. It may therefore be considered that this part of the programme is entering into a phase of active application. The problems posed by radio­ active waste throughout the fuel cycle require deeper study and offer development potential..
Lastly, theworkonreactor.componentdecontamination isdirected ' towards the general line- of decommissioning of nuclear plants,, a
preoccupation which is beginning £9 make itself felt at world level. In view of this trend, new developments should be considered in the
The "Habitat and thermal conversion" project is being actively carried forward in conjunction with the Indirect Action programme and within the International Energy Agency's Implementing Agreement on solar energy;
the prime importance of the JRC's work in this field is widely recognized.
The construction of the European Solar Test Installation (i^STI) is nearing
completion. Its elements should come into operation progressively during 1979; the task will then be to exploit in 1980 this substantial investment for the benefit of European research bodies and industry.
It would appear quite justified to intensify this programme.
The programme is designed to play a special role in the provision of ser­ vices in favour of the developing countries. This provision of services
is derived in particular from the Communication of the Commission to the Council (1) on energy co-operation with the developing countries.
1978 has been marked by a"world first"with the putting into operation
of a closed-circuit loop corresponding to the MK 13 (^SC^/HBr) cycle. The JRC also plays the role of project leader in the production of
hydrogen within the International Energy Agency and international co­ operation is being vigorously established in this field.
Whereas the technical obstacles to producing hydrogen from water are being progressively overcome , the fact still remains that any pros­ pects for economic competitivity are long-term ones. In this perspec­ tive thought should be given to the method to be adopted to
maintain technical knowledge at an adequate level until such time as
it can be applied on anindustrial scale. The problems of hydrogen trans­ port and storage, for their part, retain constant world-wide attention
as this energy vector is of considerable technical and economic interest and is environmentally positive.
6. Thermonuclear fusion technology
The conceptual studies of a future demonstration reactor are being continued : the JRC is making efforts to assemble the European laboratories interested in these studies. The engineering problems are being tackled in a practical manner with research in materials for post-JET machines .
(1) COM (78) 355 final of 31 July 1978.
The basic work for intensification of these activities is being pursued both in conceptual studies and design work and in re­ search on materials. The installation and operation of the cyclotron is scheduled for the middle of 1980. Discussions on
the new research programme for 1979-1983 in controlled thermo­ nuclear fusion have revealed the need to intensify the Community's efforts to solve fusion technology problems. The JRC has a duty
to participate in such efforts.
This relatively new activity has quickly reached a high degree of maturity. The Petten Establishment's role as a meeting point is recognized; research proper and work on setting up highly-specialized test installations have been carried forward quickly. Participation
in COST action 50 (1) is giving a new dimension to this work. In view of the limited staff resources available for the programme , a great deal of selectivity will have to be exercised in future in the choice of
8. Environment and resources
The various projects are being implemented according to schedule, in close collaboration with the Indirect Action programme and with the Environment and Consumer Protection Service. Discussions both within
theCommissionandwiththeMemberStates' competentauthoritiespoint to the importance of the problem of Chemical substances in .-the envi­
ronment and the need to push forward the development of ECDIN (2) . Concentration of the JRC's research on this "chemical products" line should rapidly bear fruit.
As regards remote sensing from space, the final report on the AGRESTE project has been acclaimed by NASA. The recent launchings of the HCMM and NIMBUS-7 satellites have given the new TELLUS and EURASEP pro­ grammes their full development. The OCS (3) airborne experiment has revealed how excellent co-operation between the numerous associated
laboratories can be organized around such projects. It is in­ creasingly evident that there is an application potential for remote sensing techniques in both agriculture and marine pollution. The JRC's early effort in this field deserves to be continued
and intensified.
(1) COST action 50 : action on materials for gas turbines carried out within European Cooperation on Scientific and Technical Research (COST) .
(2) ECDIN : Environmental Chemicals Data and Information Network. (3) OCS : Ocean Colour Scanner.
9. Measurements, standards and reference techniques (METRE)
In the nuclear field, the Central Bureau of Nuclear Measurements is successfully maintaining its central position in the highly
specialized scientific area of nuclear standards. Since the trend
in the work load in this field is hardly on the decrease, here
again the problem of selecting objectives and optimizing resources and existing capacities arisesi In so far as the non-nuclear part of the METRE programme is concerned and leaving aside support tor the Community Bureau of Reference {CBR) , the question is to determine how far the activities which the JRC has carried out so far tally with its specific role as described above in view of the development of cooperation in this field.
10. Service and support activities
During both 1977 and 1978 the Commission has widely used the JRC s scientific and technical expertise both in connection with develop­
ment policy and participation in INFCE, in the form of support for
the inspections of the Safeguards Directorate and in the evaluation
of demonstration programmes. Resources allocated to these various
tasks already appear too limited to satisfy the demand. Other activities, such as the informatics research programme or training and education tasks, are producing positive results and should be continued. Lastly,
the operation of the HFR reactor continues as an example of one of the JRC's public service rolesin the sector of large-scale in­ stallations .
The Advisory Committees on Programme Management have been called upon at regular intervals to give Opinions on the execution of the present programme. These Opinions have been transmitted to the Council and to
the Commission according to the relevant legal provisions.
These Opinions reflect the positive views of the experts of the Member States on the execution of the activities for which they are competent.
The discussions on which the Opinions were based have largely inspired the analysis set out above.
1. The preparation of this programme proposal has involved a long
and complex procedure, which started in the early months.of 1978
and which called for the participation of all the Centre's scientific
and technical staff.
The researchers and responsible officials at all Centres have been involved in the study, selection and delimitation of the possible areas of activity, where necessary in close collaboration with those in charge of the indirect action projects and the represen­ tatives of the Directorates-General responsible for the sectoral policies concerned.
On the basis of the preliminary guidelines drawn up by the Director- General in March 1978, thirty discussion groups and the same number of working parties have worked out specific proposals.
These were put forward at internal "hearings", held in July 1978, which were open to all the staff. In the light of the results, more stringeit guidelines were laid down by the Director-General to en­
able the working parties to prepare "programme modules", i.e. a
number of basic units which could be put together to form the overall proposal. Over 400 researchers in total helped with the internal preparatory work.
2. At the level of external consultation, the Advisory Committees on Programme Management (ACPMs) were called upon. from
November 1978 onwards to give their first reactions to the technical
content of the modules. In a second stage,'they were formallv con­
sulted at the request of"the General Advisory Committee (GAC) on those parts of the proposal that came within their responsibility.
3. In the course of January 1979, the GAC held an exploratory discussion, during which it reviewed the various options open for the contents
or the future programme.
In the light of the views expressed during this debate, the Director-
General prepared a preliminary draft proposal, which was placed be­ fore the Committee at a further"meeting on 21 and 22 February, during
which it adopted the formal Opinion appended to this document.
4. On 5 and 6 March, the Scientific and Technical Committee (CST) was formally consulted on the nuclear section of the preliminary draft,
and formulated an Opinion, which is likewise appended to this document .
5. On these bases, the Director-General of the JRC has drawn UD thxs proposal, which was adopted by the Commission on .
19 March 1979 for transmission to the Council, the European Parlia­ ment and the Economic and Social Committee.
The programme proposed for the period 1980-83 does not differ essentially in its orientation from the 1977-80 programme. It is built around
a limited number of key topics :
- matters of priority concern in nuclear safety;
- the development of future forms of energy;
- the study and protection of the environment;
- the development and execution of reference measurements;
- the provision of specialized scientific and technical support for the Commission's sectoral activities.
With regard to its objectives , the programme sets out to :
a) take full advantage, in significant experimental programmes,
of a number of investments, which were authorized during the preceding period and which are now in the final stage of implementation (the LOBI loop for reactor safety, cyclotron
for fusion materials and the ESTI solar test installation) ,
and in the same spirit to give to certain parts of the research anoperationalcontent (theECDINprojectintheprotection
of the environment and the reinforcement of the High Temperature Materials Information Centre) .
b) bring a number of research topics which hitherto have been confined to preliminary studies (chiefly on design) to a more advanced stage of development by the commissioning of experimental installations (the SUPER-SARA project in reactor safety, several projects on the management and storage of radio­ active waste, and the magnetic isotope separator project at the CBNM).
c) wind up, in the course of the programme, a number of projects which either have less priority or are less well adapted to the
specific role of the JRC (the own research section of the non­ nuclear METRE programme) , or which do not warrant continuation
at current level under present circumstances (the actinide incineration project in radioactive waste management and
storage, decontamination of power station components, thermochemical production of hydrogen.
 d) launch a limited number of new projects (storage and transport of energy, indoor pollution in the protection of the environment, solar power stations, and the tritium testing
laboratory in fusion technology).
e) andlastlyfollowuptheactivitiesinprogressunderthe 1977-80 programme for the remainder of the topics envisaged, the only adjustments being those called for by management experience
or by changing requirements.
All in all, the evolution of the programme is more apparent in the breadth and quality of the projects to be carried out than in the areas it embraces.
At a first evaluation, half of the programmes proposed can be considered as a, continuation of present activities, though with certain adjustments (as set out above) required either by the experience of managing the programmes or by the evolution of requirements. The other half of the programmes represents a significant evolution, whether totally new actions (some 10% of the total) , or, within the same research areas, a significant
development in their direction or in the nature of the work under­ taken(some40%ofthetotal),orthirdlyactionswhichare _ substantially reduced (a small percentage) .
The programme centres around six research areas (as against five in the1977-80programme) :
The area "Nuclear Safety and the Fuel Cycle" is subdivided into four programmes : .
A.2. Plutonium Fuels and Actinide Research
A.3. Safety of Nuclear Materials
A.4. Safeguards and Management of Fissile Materials
The fact that the programme on Safeguards and Management of Fissile Materials comes under this heading rather than among the support projects is due to the scale of the research that needs to be done and its potential value as a support to the work of the IAEA.
The area "Future Forms of Energy" is again subdivided into four programmes :
B.2. Hydrogen Production, Storage and Transport of Energy B.3. Thermonuclear Fusion Technology
B.4. High Temperature Materials
Programme B.2. takes account of the evolution of the work, and provides for the research to be extended to techniques of storing energy in forms other than hydrogen.
The area "Study and Protection of the Environment" comprises two programmes :
C.l . Protection of the Environment C.2. Remote Sensing from Space
In view of their homogeneity, it seemed expedient to group all the activities associated with Remote Sensing from Space under programme C.2. rather than distribute them according'to their uses.
The area "Nuclear Measurements is dealt with in a single programme of the same name. Owing to its orientation, the non­ nuclear section of the METRE programme is included in topic E under the heading "Support to the CBR"
The area "Specific Support for the Commission's Sectoral Activities" is subdivided into six programmes :
E.2. Support to Safeguards
E.3 . Support to the Community Bureau of Reference E.4. Training and Education
E.5. Utilization of Research Results
E.6. Provision of Scientific and Technical Services on Request
There is no separate programme of support for another important sectoral activity, development aid. Owing to the specific nature of the contributions the JRC will be called upon to make, provision for such support is made under the appropriate programmes, in particular Solar Energy, Remote Sensing and Training.
Lastly the area "Operation of Large-Scale Installations" is represented
for the moment by one programme only relating to the operation of the HFR reactor.
The structure thus adopted should take into account the specific character of the research objectives, and assure efficient technical and financial management of the programmes. As in the
past, moreover, a close link will be established with the indirect action programmes on topics similar to those being studied by the JRC (mainly applicable to programmes A.2, A.3, B.l, B.2, B.3, C.l).
As the most ambitious of the JRC programmes, the reactor safety
programme utilizes the nuclear facilities of the Centre to the full.
For the most part, the research is of a confirmative nature and is intended to back up the work of the licensing authorities with
experiments and detailed theoretical analyses. Apart from some activities of a horizontal nature in areas common to every type of reactor, the projects are mainly focused on the safety aspects of light water reactors and of liquid metal cooled fast breeder reactors. The emphasis of the programme is on a few major experi­ ments, simulating abnormal events of very low probability but with significant consequences.
In addition to the licensing authorities a programme of this type meets the requirements of the power plant operators and of the nuclear con­ struction industry.
The programme breaks down into eleven projects - a large number, but one that in no way implies dispersal of resources, but rather the intensity of the effort devoted to this field.
a) Projects more specific to light water reactors :
- project LOBI : an experimental out-of-pile study of the loss-of- coolant phenomenon in light water reactors;
- project SUPER-SARA : an in-pile experiment simulating the behaviour of light water reactor fuel in the event of coolant loss;
- projet LWR primary circuit integrity : early detection of faults in light water reactor vessels;
b) projects more specific to breeder reactors :
- project LMFBR subassembly thermohydraulics : modelling of the thermohydraulic behaviour of fuel assemblies in abnormal situations;
- project LMFBR mechanical tests : study of certain aspects of the behaviour of structural materials;
- project EAC : development of codes to describe scenarios of abnormal situations;
- projectsPAHR and PAHR in-pile : theoretical and experimental study of molten core behaviour, including in-pile tests. In
accordance with the opinion of the General Advisory Committee, some of these tests are to be the subject of a special decision during the course of the programme.
- project CONT : study on the behaviour of structures and contain­ ments subjected to accident stresses.
- project FCI : study of fuel-coolant interaction under accident conditions ;
- project Reliability and Risk Assessment : analysis and collection of data on reactor reliability and risk assessment.
It should be noted that this "Reactor Safety" programme is intended to include a large element of international co-operation, with the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission co-operating in the FCI, SUPER-SARA and PAHR projects,, and EPRI (Electric Power Research Institute, USA) andJAERI(JapanAtomicEnergyResearchInstitute) intheSUPER-SARA-
programme. It should be further recalled that the LOBI project has been financed at the start by the German Research Ministry.
A.2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
This programme comes partly under the heading of fast reactor fuel development and partly under that of fundamental research on acti- niaes. It is mainly being conducted in the specialized laboratories of the European Institute at Karlsruhe, and is subdivided into three projects :
- Utilization limits of plutonium fuels : their behaviour is studied under normal and abnormal conditions;
- Safety of the plutonium fuel cycle : theoretical and experimental studies will endeavour to provide an answer to some of the problems raised by the presence of transuranium elements in
- Actinide research : a study of chemical bonding in solid actinides. This long-term basic research takes the form of fundamental theoretical studies backed up by solid state physics experiments on pure samples prepared and characterized in the laboratory.
A.3. Safety of nuclear materials
The programme centres chiefly on problems relating to the treatment
and temporary or permanent storage of radioactive waste . The aim of the theoretical and experimental research is the safety evaluation
of waste management procedures.
The programme is divided into four projects :
- Risk evaluation s study of safe waste management techniques;
- Protective barriers : study of natural and artificial barriers to the migration of radionuclides into the biosphere;
- Actinide separation and actinide monitoring : studies of the chemical insulation and control of these very long-life elements .
In this programme , the use of hot cells will be considered for experiments with a more direct application on industrial scale.
Moreover, with regard to the decommissioning of the Ispra I reactor,
which ought by its nature to come within the scope of this programme ,
the Director-General reserves the right, in accordance with the opinion
of the General Advisory Committee , to examine the decommissioning operations
from the viewpoint of safety requirements and in the light of other projects in this field which are to be carried out under the corresponding indirect action programme.
A.4. Fissile materials control and management
Continuing concern to strengthen safeguards and fissile material management methods calls for a sustained research and development effort. In close collaboration with the Euratom Safeguards Directo­ rate, the national laboratories, the management of nuclear instal­ lations and the officials of the IAEA,the JRC intends to step up its contribution in this field. The aim of the proposed programme is to develop various safeguards techniques for application in the main types of nuclear installations. The programme is subdivided into four projects according to the techniques being studied :
- the first is concerned with the acquisition of data for materials accountancy and the evaluation of the material balance;
- the second relates to the development of measurement methods and instrumentation and of techniques for evaluating the isotopic composition of irradiated fuels;
- the third is a study of containment and surveillance techniques;
- the fourth and last is devoted to the study of safeguard systems for the whole of the fuel cycle.
Against the background of the substantial efforts being made in the Community to develop solar energy, the JRC intends to follow up a number of specialized tasks which correspond more to its own role than others. They are summed up in four projects :
- project ESTI : exploitation of a large testing facility under natural or simulated radiation for both thermal and photo­ voltaic systems;
- project Habitat : studies of- systems that permit the use of solar energy in all seasons, and of high-temperature systems for industrial and agricultural applications;
- project Solar power plants : a contribution, through materials research and design studies, to improving the economic competi­ tiveness of power plants;
- project PPC : basic reasarch on new processes for the conversion and storage of solar energy.
Provision is made within the solar energy programme for technical assistance to developing countries. .
 B.2. Hydrogen production, energy storage and transport
In the development of new energy sources, a great deal of attention has been devoted to the sources themselves and to systems of product­ ion. Nevertheless, the storage and transport of the energy produced are matters that should not be overlooked; in many cases, they are an essential requirement for the economic utilization of the new systems, whether because of the intermittent nature of the source
(solar energy) , of because of the mode of utilization (mobile applications) , or because of the distance between the centres of production and consumption. In these respects, hydrogen holds out attractive prospects - hence the JRC 's interest in the production of this energy carrier.
The project on the thermochemical production of hydrogen is a continuation of the research on a scale adapted to the evolution
of the energy scene, whereas the advanced studies on energy carriers and the systems studies are an extension of the activities towards energy transport and storage problems through systems analysis and the testing of components.
B.3. Thermonuclear fusion technology
The JRC's work on fusion is closely linked with the Community's
research and training programme in the field of fusion and plasma physics.
It is concentrated on technological problems, in which the experience gained with fission reactors can be turned to good use , and is subdivided into six projects :
- conceptual design studies on fusion reactors s a contribution to the design of post-JET machines;
- blanket technology studies : an essential technological component
of the future reactor;
- studies of structural materials s notably the evolution of their properties under irradiation;
- studies on advanced materials : chiefly exploratory;
- operation of the cyclotron : experimental research on the irradiation of materials;
- preparatory work for a tritium testing laboratory.
 B.4. High temperature materials
This relatively new programme is intended to encourage within the Community the development of these materials which are necessary for the energy technologies of the future.
The work is concentrated on three closely connected projects:
a High Temperature Materials Information Centre, which relies on the skills developed and maintained within the research project Materials and Engineering Studies, while the quantifiable data are stocked together in the Data Bank which will be developed in the third project.
C. 1 . Protection of the environment
Within the very large scope of the problems posed by the protection of the environment the JRC proposes to concentrate its activities on a very limited number of research areas and thus to continue the rationalization effort begun in 1977.
Apart from a project devoted to the theoretical and experimental study of the impact on the environment of fossil fuel power plants . in particular the atmospheric pollution which they cause, all the projects are connected with the problem of the introduction of toxic chemical substances into the environment.
The projects are five in number, and are as follows:
- the ECDIN project, which is given a special priority, is tied
to the transition towards an operational stage of an information and data network on chemical substances;
- the project Exposure to Chemical Products which is broken down
into a sub-project Indoor Pollution, a new activity the aim of which is to make an inventory of the sources of this pollution
and to analyse and characterize these pollutants ; and a sub-project Organic Substances, which is concerned with the development of analytical methods of high precision and with the preparation of reference substances in this special area;
- the projects Air Quality and Water Quality deal with particular aspects of the pollution of these environments;
- the project Heavy Metals Pollution is devoted to the problems of exposure to these toxic substances and of their effects on health.
 C.2. Remote sensing from space
Even though the techniques of remote sensing from airborne platforms and platforms in space have reached an operational stage in certain cases, they nevertheless require research activities to be continued. The bringing into operation of new systems (e.g. microwave radar ) or the development of existing systems (e.g. Landsat-D) continously offer new perspectives for their application which require trial and verif­ ication. In parallel, access fornew catergories of users of these techniques, in particular the developing countries, must be facilitated by the realization of demonstration projects.
Two projects which concern two areas of general interest for the policies of the Community are proposed: a project"Agriculture"and a project "Protection of the Sea".
D . 1 . Nuclear measurements
This programme is essentially carried out at the Central Bureau of Nuclear Measurements at Geel.
It consists of three projects:
- measurement of nuclear data by means of the large accelerators of the Establishment;
- nuclear reference materials and techniques, which covers the develop­ ment of these materials which are indispensible to the nuclear indus­ try (and to safeguards) . In particular, the examination of the possibilities of production,chemical purification and isotopic enrichment by electromagnetic means of rare actinides is proposed
•with the aim of arriving at the beginning of European independence in this field, which is dependant upon suppliers outside the Community ;
- European Shielding Information Service (ESIS) , the aim of which is the dissemination of information on protection against shielding radiation .
These activities, which closely integrate service and research aspects, constitute a framework for hosting the management teams of European informatics programmes.
They are concentrated on two projects of a recognized central character: the project Teleinformatics which places the JRC's activities within the CREST-CIDST plan and the COST actions , and which is tied to the development of the EURONET network; and the project Eurocopl which will improve the provision of information on computer programmes, in parti­ cular by studies of programming techniques and languages.
E.2. Support to safeguards
As an independent European centre, the JRC plays the role of reference laboratory for the analysis of samples taken during safeguards inspections.
In addition to analytical verification work, the JRC gives technical assistance to the Safeguards Directorate. This assistance includes
the adaptation and checking of devices or complete systems destined for scientific installations.
E.3. Support to the Community Bureau of Reference
The JRC will continue some tasks of co-ordination and organization of specialist groups and will continue in the earlier stages to provide technical assistance in evaluation and statistical analysis of results. A certain number of specialists from the Ispra, Geel and Petten Establishments will participate part-time in this work, which will be accompanied by a certain amount of actual research.
E.4. Training and education
This programme covers the organization of the "Ispra Courses", the subjects of which are closely related to the Centre's research.
The number of these courses will be increased, and greater conside­ ration will be given to the specific requirements of the countries connected to the Community by cooperation agreements.
E.5. Utilization of research results
The JRC will make a particular effort to promote the utilization of the results of its research and to facilitate the transfer' of technology which originates in patents and know-how derived from its work. The JRC will provide
within its programmes a specific support for the Directorate-General "Scientific and Technical Information and Information Management".
E.6. Provision of scientific and technical services on request
This programme covers the JRC's activities carried out at their request in support of other services of the Commission. These services
are of two types: technical evaluations which use systems analysis methods, or technical assistance based on the special skills and equipment of the JRC. This latter type of service includes assis­ tance with the technical management of projects derived from the policies conducted by other Directorates General. Such activities are particularly beneficial to the coordination of programmes carried out simultaneously by direct and indirect action.
The operation of the reactor will continue to the benefit of the research programmes of the participating Member States (fuel be­ haviour, basic physics experiments, isotope production) and for the JRC's own requirements (Pu fuels programme, fusion programme, reactor safety programme) . Outside customers will also be able to use the irradiation facilities on payment.
During the next programme, the teams will continue to maintain and upgrade the reactor, and to develop and improve the irradiation equipment and apparatus to enable this installation to keep its position among the Community's most important irradiation means.
5. The programmes in relation to the JRC s tasks
The table 1 (p. 21) gives an overview of the manner in which each of the programmes described above relates to one or other of the aspects of the JRC's role within the common policy on science and technology .
In addition to the three essential tasks - central role , public service, supportfortheCommission-aparticularheading
indicates the programmes which are connected to an existing indirect action or other actions of the Commission. A particular co-ordination effort obviously takes place within the services of the Commission before this co-ordination is submitted to examination by the external consultative bodies.
A3 Safety of Nue.Mat.
E4 Training and Education
E5 Utilization of Research Results
E6 Prov.of scient.Stechn. services on request
Table 1 - The programmes in relation to the JRC"S tasks
C : little correlation - : not applicable
Support to Commission
Connection with indirect action or other actions of the Commission
1. Commencement and duration of the programme
a) The proposed programme covers a four-year period from 1980 to 1983 inclusive. As of 1 January 1980, it will extend and replace the current programme, also of four years' duration, which was launched on 1 January 1977.
b) In this way the Commission proposes to implement the Council Decision adopting the current programme (1) , which provides for a review during the third year and for the possibility, at the same time, of adopting a new four-year programme.
In this connection, it should be recalled that the three-year frequency was adopted, first, in order to make due allowance for the normal time-span of the programme decision process and the budgetary procedures that follow it; second, because of the need to carry on the programme over a long enough period to enable significant experience to be gained; and lastly because it is desirable that the JRC programmes should be adapted regularly and fairly rapidly in the light of the progress of activities and the changing requirements resulting from the evolution of various sectoral policies.
In applying these principles, the JRC has ca,rried out a careful analysis of the activities in progress, making an overall review of the resources employed and the results achieved, in order to assess the justification, progress, efficiency, success and usefulness of the work.
Some further particulars in this connection will be given later, .
After concluding this analysis, the Commission feels that the time has come to expand some of the major activities and reorientate others, i.e. to redefine a number of objectives within the context of the broad research areas to which the JRC is contributing.
This redefinition has led the Commission to propose the adoption of a new 1980-83 programme containing similar provisions with regard to the decision procedure.
(1) Official Journal L 200 of 8 August 1977
a) The total staff complement of the JRC during the new multiannual programme should be 2,260 employees. This is the same level as was laid down for the end of the preceding programme, including the JRC staff then assigned to the ESSOR complex.
b) An indicative breakdown of this staff between the various programmes is given in table 3 (p. 27) .
As in the current programme, the staff complement includes :
personnel directly involved in research (including all categories of employees, not only graduate staff) ; these are the research staff , the most representative unit for measuring the volume and
intensity of a programme;
a portion of the personnel commensurate with the requirements of the programme for scientific and technical support (services rendered by the computer centre, central workshops, medium activity laboratories, etc.);
- and lastly, a portion assigned to all general services (akin to public services), and distributed among the various programmes in proportion to the total number of research staff.
These distinctions were originally made because of a need for greater clarity in the internal organization and management of the Centre;
this need led to an appropriate change in the structure of the budget from 1977 onwards.
c) In foreseeing the level of staff at 2,260, the Commission would be complying with the decision taken earlier to reduce the JRC's staff by 80 posts in four years.
Although the JRC's role could be considerably strengthened by a gradual expansion of its activities, and although its staff is a mere fraction of the research personnel engaged in Europe in the same fields , it does not seem expedient at this stage to attempt any reinforcement
of team numbers, but rather to take steps to increase their flexibility.
Hence the work of the JRC will be directed more towards giving proof of the optimum efficiency of its laboratories and towards wider participation by its technicians in the world of research.
However, the Commission wishes to point out clearly that no further reduction should now be made in the JRC's staff, as otherwise this work force, which in the last few years is recognized to have acquired new quality and usefulness, would no longer be capable of carrying out its tasks with the desired efficiency.
The decline in the level of authorized staff over the past ten years or more has helped to bring about an overall ageing and insufficient renewal of technical and scientific skills. New recruitment has been possible only to the limited extent that natural wastage is in excess of the required reductions
but natural wastage is uncontrollable in its consequences.
Without doubt, the new staff regulations for researchers offer some
ways of improving their mobility and the flexibility of teams , and
thus assist the necessary rejuvenation and the adaptation of skill
profiles in accordance with the activities undertaken. This adapta­
tion of skills is taking place, it must be fully expanded, and it
would be regretable to interrupt it. If it is true that a certain
amount of staff renewal has almost held stable the overall ageing
of the personnel and helped to reinforce some of the scientific
disciplines, the factor of insecurity associated with the contract
system does not always enable the JRC to attract the proven specia­ lists that some of the projects call for. But at all events one
needs to go further and recognize in the first place that an ongoing process of contraction in the authorized staff does not make for
sound personnel management.
Accepting that the level of personnel is stabilized, the Commission considers that . in the second place agreement should be reached
on a recruitment policy based on a multiannual forecast of staff losses. This wastage through resignations, deaths, transfers or retirements, amounts to forty per year. Though this figure may seem substantial, it is barely 2% per annum of the total staff, and even less in the active research sector . Owing to the average age, movements are more numerous in the general services, which
are already strained to the limit and must be maintained at more or less the present level.
In anticipation of an enlargement of the Community, an early retirement scheme is now being studied by the inter-institutional services, and is expected to enter into force in the near future. Thus the staff might be given the option of voluntary retirement
at sixty, which would speed up the rate of departures over a certain period of time.
In view of the total number of staff likely to be leaving, the Commission is proposing a number of temporary measures designed to telp in readjusting the profile of the JRC staff . With effect from the first year of the programme, the JRC would have 70 posts avail­ able in excess of the authorized number to offset the effects of natural wastage; the Commission would undertake to restore the
situation to normal as early as possible , and in any case before the last year of the programme.
This room for manoeuvre would enable the JRC both to launch these new activities in optimal conditions of dynamism and skill, and to
conduct an overall recruitment policy with adequate medium-term prospects .
At the practical level, these temporary measures might be the subject of special agreement by the Council and find a temporary solution through budgetary channels . The Commission would undertake to manage these posts in the joint interest and would keep the Council regularly informed.
The cost of this operation would be not more than 2% of the personnel expenditure .
* Pr°graTMrce allocation and budget appropriations
) The overall budget resources required for the implementation of the proposed programme, given the specified technical contents and time­ scale, is estimated at 543 million EUA for the four-year period 1980-83. This amount covers all expenditure in respect of the programme and
cakes account of any revenue that can be identified at this stage.
In other words, these appropriations will cover all the JRC's activities including those carried out for other Directorates-General. The latter are not taken into account in the programme envelope for the current period . The proposed ' layout complies with the change in the budget structure requested by the budget authority.
In accordance with the arrangements adopted by the Council for the current multiannual programme, this envelope includes :
- an amount of some 276 million EUA for personnel expenditure estimated as at 1 January 1980 on the basis of hypothese envisaged by the Commis­ sion in early 1979. Following any Council decision adjusting the
level of remunerations, the Commission will re-assess the expenditure and notify the budget authority of the effects of the re-assessment
on the programme envelope.
- an amount of some 267 million EUA for operating expenditure , this being a flat-rate assessment expressed in current values;
It should be noted, moreover, that this total amount includes an provision­ al amount of 6.77 million EUA for in-pile experiments in the context of the PAKR project (Programme A.l Reactor Safety). This amount will not be used until favourable opinions havebeen.received from the relevant Advisory Conrr.ittee on Programme Management and the General Advisory Committee;
these opinions ought to be on hand by the end of 1981 .
An indicative breakdown of funds and staff between the proposed pro­ grammes is given in the table 3 (p. 27) . Moreover, each of the tech­
nical sheets in the Annex gives a detailed breakdown of the requirements for staff and specific appropriations (investments, operating expendi­ ture and contracts) for the programme in question. It should be noted that the contracts to be concluded by the JRC will not overlap at any point with those of the indirect action programme .
b) The allocation of resources between the six research topics in the programme is as follows :
- Nuclear safety and the fuel cycle
- Future forms of energy
- Study and protection of the environment
- Nuclear measurements
- Specific support to the Commission 's sectoral activities
- Operation of large-scale installations
This means that 74 % of the total funds is concentrated in the field of energy and the environment, whilst the remaining 26 % is mainly to cover the JRC's public service functions.
It should be recalled in this connection that the JRC's activity until 1972 was entirely devoted to the nuclear field. A gradual evolution has allowed
a balanced solution to be reached, with half of the activities remaining in the nuclear field, and the other half concerning other research sectors.
c) In comparison with the preceeding programme, the ratio between staff expenditure and scientific and technical operating expenditure has been slightly adjusted in favour of the latter, mainly because of the beginning of major technological programmes. The proportions are 51% and 49% respectively.
The table below summarizes the general distribution of funds (estimated : not entirely accurate due to computer processing) .
Table 2 - Distribution of . funds • into main categories
B.2. Specific support appropriations (infrastructure and laboratory
* Including the provisional amount of 6.77 million EUA reserved for the PAHR project.
Plutonium Fuels and Actinide 117 Research
appropriations for services
Safety of Nuclear Materials 52 I Fissile Materials Control 60
Hydrogen Production, Energy Storage and Transport
Thermonuclear Fusion Technology
High Temperature Materials
1 Protection of the Environment
Remote Sensing from Space
Total Protection of the Environment
Nuclear Measurements I Informatics
Support to Safeguards
Support to the Community Bureau of Reference
Training and Education
Utilization of Research Results
Provision of Scientific and Technical Services on Request
Total Spécifie Support to the Commission
for the oroarammê 36,630
Appropriations in million EUA Spécifie
and Management
The rationalisation measures for the internal'operation of the Centre, which were put in place during the preceding programmes, make possible a type
of research management approaching industrial management, while main­ taining the flexibility necessary for carrying out a scientific activity. The adoption of the matrix structure in the organisation of the work and
the use of the functional budget, which reproduces the picture of this structure at financial level, are the most significant elements of this rationalisation. It has been completed by the realisation of a unified system of JRC publications . In addition to improving and further developing the tool thus created, efforts under the next programme will be directed mainly towards evaluation of research.
2. Evaluation of research
For some years , the problems associated with the evaluation of research and the exploitation of results have been receiving increasing attention, and the JRC has been fully conscious of developments in this area. Since it is anxious to make the right choices and assess the true impact of its research, and motivated particularly by the information obtained from the Milan symposium on science and technology policy (1976) and the Copenhagen symposium on the evaluation of research and development (1978) in which it was an active participant, the JRC is gradually setting up a number of pro­ cedures which should provide it with greater insight into the manner in which it fulfils the specific tasks assigned to it and into the exact ex­ tent to which its research forms a valuable part of the entire European R&D network.
Since it began to diversify its programme (1973) and more markedly, during the period 1977-80, the JRC has endeavoured to provide an accurate defi­ nition of the objectives of its research and the aims of its programme, to assess the implementation periods , the decision points and timetables for the commitment of financial resources and staff.
Corresponding to this definition phase is a phase of monitoring and evaluation in which the effectiveness of the current programme is analysed by the achievement of its objectives and which enables any adjustments which may be necessary to be carried out.
Special attention was given in this connection to the appropriate presentation of records and operational reports.
A system of regular half-yearly reports on the progress of the programme has been set up. Each of these reports describes in particular the ob­ jectives for the period in question, the extent to which these objectives were attained and, where they were not attained, the difficulties en­ countered, reasons for the delay and any re-adjustments which have proved necessary. It also indicates the main important points for the next six months, which will be covered by the following, half-yearly reports. As well as being useful for the evaluation of the programme, these reports are also beneficial for the direct administration of the research since they oblige the researchers to undertake planning of their activities. However, it must be admitted that this planning generally remains fairly rudimentary, being closely dependent on the type of research undertaken.
Another important evaluation factor is the analysis of the budget and
staff allocated to a programme or project. Implementation of the functional
budget makes it possible to divide the entire operating costs of the
Centre among the research objectives. This allocation takes place monthly
on the basis of a financial report which provides details of the costs
of the infrastructure, technical assistance and the scientific teams in­
volved. These costs are allocated to the different projects on the basis
of their respective use of laboratories, teams, and installations; this
utilization is measured, as appropriate, by monthly accounts and predetermined weighting coefficients.
The internal management bodies therefore have available a table showing the progress of research and budgetary follow-up information. Four levels of supervision can be identified internally :
- at JRC level : the Director-General assisted by the Programme Management Directorate of the JRC, which participates more in the evaluation of results than in the evaluation of the programme as a result of its responsibilities for coordination with outside bodies;
- within the programme : the Programme Manager', at Ispra, the programme managers form part of a Projects Directorate;
- at project level : the Project Leader;
- at sub-project level : the coordinator of the activity concerned.
In addition to this internal management structure, the General Advisory Committee and the Advisory Committees on Programme Management play an important part in evaluating the programme and their opinions affect the internal decision-making processes. :
The evaluation of programmes,which takes place at the different internal management levels and is followed by outside bodies on the basis of the
progress reports and other available information indicates , where ap­ propriate, any adjustments which are required in'planning in terms of objectives, budgets, and workforce.
It should however be noted that in-programme evaluation is only effective to the extent that the different levels of management are capable of in­ troducing the necessary amendments rapidly, i.e. to the extent that they possess corresponding powers, within the limits of the resources and the objectives of the programme as it has been adopted.
2.3. Evaluation of results
In parallel with the in-programme evaluation, the JRC is endeavouring to evaluate the results of its research, that is to study the effect of its activities on society; this impact may be direct or indirect, immediate or long-term .
In this analysis , the JRC is confronted by the same difficulties as those , facing national research laboratories . Since this impact cannot be quanti­ fied directly, a number of indicators are used; each of these indicators, in isolation, does not provide the desired answer, but taken together they make it possible to obtain an idea of the extent to which research results are disseminated and used in society. These indicators are linked either to the transfer of information or to cooperation with the outside world.
The first indicators relate to publications (their number, types, quotations from cnese publications in outside literature) , patents and licences and
training and educational activities , whereas the second concern work under­ taken on behalf of outside bodies under contract or for other Commission
departments, and activities in the field of international cooperation. This last-mentioned indicator is particularly significant : the direct comparison of i'deas and results with those of other laboratories and institutions
which are active in the same field reveals the relative quality of the
work undertaken. This quality can be gauged during "meeting point" activities when symposia, seminars or expert working parties are organized. It
should be pointed out that this quality is recognized in particular by the
conclusion of cooperation agreements relating to specific research to which each partner makes its contribution in equitable fashion . Reference can be made to the active participation of the JRC in recent years in a number of agreements within the Internatior^LEnergy Agency, and the setting up of collaborative projects with the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Lastly, reference must be made to a final indicator to which particular attention is paid by the Director-General and his departments : namely opinionsgenerally delivered by the Advisory Committee on Programme Manage­ ment at the end of each year, which form an assessment of the work con­ ducted under each programme during the preceding 12 months. These moti­ vated technical opinions represent the periodical conclusion of a con­
tinuous review procedure and as a result, a particular signi.ficance is attached to them.
During the 1980-83 programme, the JRC will intensify this aspect of the evaluation of results by conducting a precise analysis of the variations of each of these indicators and by studying their particular limitations, for example, the effect of the confidentiality of publications on the dissemination of knowledge, the consequences of granting non-exclusive licences for the interest of potential licencees and the effect of the rigidity of the programme on the possibilities for undertaking work for third parties, etc.
3. Liaison with other institutions and advisory bodies
From the adoption of the multiannual programme which is currently being implemented the Commission emphasized from the outset the importance it attaches to the existence of a permanent dialogue between the institutions and competent bodies of the Member States and the JRC .
This dialogue mainly takes place during the successive stages of programme and budget preparation, decision-taking and implementation and follow-up, either through the internal or external Advisory Committees or through
the mechanisms of the Community institutions.
3.1 . The Advisory Committees set up by the Council or Commission participate in
the preparatory and execution phases . They have played an effective part in the
launching, development and success or the JRC's activities through their de­ bates, advice and opinions. A list of these Committees is .
- The Advisory Committees on Programme Management (ACPM) , the role of which was clearly defined in the relevant texts (1) " it shall be the task of each Committee to contribute, in its advisory capacity, to the best possible implementation of the programme for which it is responsible (in particular the detailed definition of projects) and to assess the results and ensure better liaison between the implementation of the programmes
at Community level and the corresponding research and development work being carried out in the Member States".
In addition, where direct and indirect action coexist, these Committees contribute towards the achievement of a coherent structure for the re­ search undertaken.
In spite of a certain overloading of the structures of the JRC resulting from the extra work, it it undeniable that the contribution made by these Committees has been extremely favourable and has assisted con­ siderably in the successful- development of Activities.
(1) O.J. C 192, 11.8.1977 - Council Resolution of 18 July 1977 on advisory committees on research programme management.
Examination of future programmes in the light of current programmes reveals that the area of competence of the existing committees needs no, or hardly any,amendment or extension. As a result, it is proposed to retain the ACPMs in their present form as listed programme by pro­ gramme intable 4 (p.33).
- The General Advisory Committee (GAC) set up as part of the reorganization of the Joint Research Centre (1) , the members of which are appointed in accordance with a special Council Resolution (2) .
This Committee which maintains the required contact with prevailing industrial and national scientific policies has played a major part in
the reorganization and efficient exploitation of the JRC. It also makes
use of the opinion of the ACPMs and assists the Director-General in pre­ paring programmes and regularly reviewing the current status of activities .
The General Advisory Committee has recommended that in accordance with their terms of reference, the ACPMs should be consulted on proposals for future programmes . Their Opinions delivered on these proposals appear in the technical annex together with details of each programme.
The General Advisory Committee also held an initial general policy dis­ cussion on future activities, and in a second phase analysed the specific proposals and delivered the Opinion shown at the end of this document(annex
- A number of internal Commission committees; these are consulted as part of the interdepartmental coordination of activities which provides the link to sectoral policies.
- The Scientific and Technical Committee, whose consultation is provided for in Article 7 of the Euratom Treaty which delivered an Opinion on the
nuclear section of the present proposal . This Opinion is also included at the end of the document (annex III) .
- The Scientific and Technical Research Committee (CREST) which periodically ensures that the role and objectives of the JRC are suitably in accordance with the objectives of and perspectives for a common policy of research on development .
3.2 . Dialogue with the Community institutions mainly occurs at the time of the decision-making procedures relating to proposals for programmes and when the programmes which have been approved are translated into annual budgets .
Naturally, the closest possible relations exist at the level of the different institutional bodies, which are :
- the Council : the Atomic Questions Group and the Budget Committee.
;i) Commission Decision of 13 January 1971, reorganizing the Joint Research Centre (O.J. L 16, 20.1.1971) .
(2) Resolution of 17 December 1970 of the representatives of the Governments of the Member States meeting within the Council (O.J. L 16, 20.1.1971) .
2. Plutonium fuels and actinlde research
3" Nuclear materials and radio­ active waste management
3. Thermonuclear fusion technology
"Plutonium fuels and actinide research *
"Management and storage of radiaoactive waste (in conjunction with Indirect action)
"Solar energy" (in conjunction with indirect action )
"Production and utilization of hydrogen" (in conjunction with indirect action)
"Fusion and plasma physics" (liaison group of the Fusion Associations)
"Environment and resources (in conjunction with indirect action- with the assistance of
the Standing Committee for Agricultural Re- search in respect of the section of agricultural resources )
A.2. Plutonium fuels and actinide research
A.3. Safety of nuclear materials
A.4. Guarantee and management of fissile J materials I
B.2. Production of hydrogen, storage and transport of energy
B.3. Technology of thermonuclear fusion
C.l. Protection of the environment
I C.2.Remote-sensingfromspace I I
4. High-temperaturematerials [ III.Environment and resources
I IV.Measurments, standards and ref­
"Reference materials and methods" (in conjuction i with the CBR indirect action programme for the non-nuclear section) ,
V. Service and support. activities Informatics
3. Exploitation of the HFR reactor
"Measurer? : ' for the r.
standards and reference techniques ir section
D.l. Nuclear measurements
F.l. Exploitation of the HFR reactor
"Fissile materials control "Exploitation of the HFR reactor"
- the European Parliament : the Committees on Energy and Research, on the
Environment and on Budgets including the Sub-Committee on Control of the European Parliament.
- the Economic and Social Committee : the Section for Energy and Nuclear Questions .
The positions adopted by these institutional bodies have been greatly facilitated in recent years by the substantial preparatory and follow-up activities conducted through the systematic consultation of the Committees which have already been mentioned.
Nevertheless, the whole process of drawing up and adopting research pro­
grammes involves a degree of complexity, rigidity a^d periods of time which are hardly propitious to the implementation of research activities, which require machinery similar to that employed in industrial management.
1. The multiannual research programme for the JRC is based on Article 7 of the EAEC Treaty or Article 235 of the EEC Treaty, depending on which of the programmes is concerned.
A proposal for decision is given in Annex I.
2. This proposal for decision has been established taking into account the Council Resolution of 17 December 1970 on the detailed rules for
the adoption of research and education programmes (1) .
(1) Official Journal No. L 16, 20 January 1971
adopting a research programme to be implemented by the Joint Research Centre
for the European Atomic Energy Community and for the European Economic Community
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community, and in particular Article 7 thereof,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 235 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission presented after consultation, with regard to nuclear projects, of the Scientific and Technical Committee,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament (1),
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee (2) ,
Whereas in the context of the common policy relating to the field of science and technology the multiannual research programme is one of the principal means whereby the European Atomic Energy Community can contribute to .the safety and
development of nuclear energy and to the acquisition and the dissemination of information in the nuclear field;
Whereas Article 2 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community assigns to the Community inter alia the task of promoting throughout the
Community a harmonious development of economic activities, a continuous and balanced expansion and an increase in stability; whereas the objectives pursued by the Community's activities to this end are set out in Article 3 of the
Whereas the non-nuclear projects provided for by the Decision appear necessary for the attainment of these objectives;
Whereas the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community has not provided powers required for this purpose;
Whereas the Council has adopted a resolution concerning
the coordination of national policies and the definition of Community actions in the field of science and technology (3) ;
Whereas the programme was drawn up in accordance with the Council resolution of 17 December 1970 concerning the procedures for adopting research and training programmes (4) ;
Whereas the Italian Government has undertaken to take over until 31 December 1980 the ESSOR complex, made available to it by the Commission, within the
meaning of Article 6 (c) of the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community;
Whereas it is in the common interest to further experiments in reactor safety, and the use of the ESSOR complex is necessary to this end;
Whereas article 3 of Council Decision Nr 77/488/CEE, Euratom of 18 July 1977 provides for a review of the programme during its third year which may lead to the adoption of a new four-year programme;
A research programme as presented in Annexes A and B is hereby adopted for a period of four years, as from 1 January 1980.
The global requirements for the total duration of the programme as given in Annex A are estimated at 542.62 million European units of account and a staff of 2,260 agents, the European unit of account being defined in Article 10 of
the Financial Regulation o.f 21 December 1977.
(3) Council Resolution of 14 January 1974. (4) O.J. Nr L 16, 20.1.1971, p. 13.
 These figures have an indicative value only.
The indicative breakdown of funds and staff is given in Annex B.
The programme shall be reviewed during its third year. Such review may lead to a Council Decision on a new four-year programme in accordance with the appropriate procedure.
The dissemination of the information resulting from the implementation of the non-nuclear parts of the programme shall be carried out in accordance
with Council Regulation (EEC) No. 2380/74 of 17 September 1974, adopting provisions for the dissemination of information relating to research programmes for the European Economic Community (5) .
The Commission shall^ be responsible for the implementation of the programme and, to this end, shall call upon the services of the Joint Research Centre.
The Council decision 77/488/EEC, Euratom is repealed. Done at Brussels,
FOR THE COUNCIL The President
The programme consists of the following eleven projects :
- project LOBI : study of loss of coolant accidents in light water reactors
- project SUPER-SARA : an in-pile experiment on the behaviour of light water reactor fuel in the event of loss of coolant;
- project LWR primary circuit integrity : early detection of faults in light water reactor vessels;
- fast breeder fuel sub-assembly thermohydraulics;
- mechanical tests of fast breeder structural materials,-
- development of fast breeder hypothetical accident codes ;
- project PAHR : study of the evacuation of residual heat in a fast breeder molten core;
- study of fuel-coolant interaction under accident conditions;
- study of the behaviour of structures and containments subjected to accidental stresses;
- analysis of reliability and risk assessment.
Plutonium fuels and actinide research (nuclear activity) The programme consists of the following three projects : - utilization limits of plutonium fuels;
- safety of actinide cycle;
 A.3. Safety of nuclear materials (nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following four projects : - risk evaluation
A.4. Fissile materials control and management (nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following four projects :
- acquisition of data for accountancy and materials balance evaluation;
- development of measurement methods - and instrumentation and of methods for theevaluation of the isotopic composition of irradiated fuels;
- containment and surveillance techniques;
- study of safeguards systems for the fuel cycle as a whole . -
B.l. Solar Energy (non-nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following four projects :
- solar energy for habitat and low temperature applications - solar power plant materials
- photoelectrochemical and photochemical conversion.
 B.2. Hydrogen production, energy storage and transport (non-nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following three projects : - thermochemical production of hydrogen;
- advanced studies on energy carriers;
B.3. Thermonuclear fusion technology (nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following six projects :
- conceptual studies on fusion reactors; - blanket technology studies;
- studies of structural materials;
- studies on advanced materials;
- operation of the cyclotron;
- preparatory work for a tritium testing laboratory.
The programme consists of the following three projects : - high temperature materials information centre;
- materials and engineering studies;
- high temperature materials data bank
C.l. Protection of the environment(non-nuclear activity) The programme consists of the following six projects :
- exposure to chemical products, in particular, indoor pollution and organic substances;
- analysas of air quality;
- analysis of water quality;
- heavy metals pollution and health effects;
- environmental impact of conventional power plants.
 C.2. Remote sensing from space (non-nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following two projects : - agriculture
- protection of the sea.
Nuclear Measurements (nuclear activity)
The programme consists of the following three projects : - measurement of nuclear data;
- nuclear reference materials and techniques;
The programme consists of the following two projects : - teleinformatics
Support to safeguards (nuclear activity)
Support to the Community Bureau of Reference (non-nuclear activity) Training and education (non-nuclear activity)
Utilization of research results (nuclear and non-nuclear activity)
Provision of scientific and technical services on request (nuclear and non-nuclear activity)
OPERATION OF LARGE-SCALE INSTALLATIONS (nuclear activity) Operation of the HFR reactor (nuclear activity)
2. Support to Safeguards I 37
3. SupporttotheCommunityBureau
of Reference 13
4. Training and education 17
5' Utilization of research results 14
2. Plutonium fuels and actinide
3η - Safety of nuclear materials 114
4. Fissile materials control and
storage and transport 79
3 . Thermonuclear fusion technology 130 4. Hightemperaturematerials 63
I 1. Protection of the environment ! 174 tI
.2. Remote sensing from space
6. Provision of scientific and technical services on request
Total of which
issued at its 25th Meeting (21-22 February 1979) on the multiannual research programme
(1980-1983) of the Joint Research Centre.
In accordance with Article 6 of the Commission Decision of 13 January 1971 concerning the reorganization of the JRC,
the Director-General established on his own responsibility a preliminary draft of the multiannual programme of the JRC for the years 1980-1933 . This preliminary draft was submit­ ted for Opinion to the General Advisory Committee in two versions (documents CCG 250 and CCG 251). ■
After holding an orientation debate at its 24th meeting on 17 January 1979, the General Advisory Committee at its 25th meeting on 21 and 22 February 1979 under the Chairmanship of Mr. S. AMELINCKX gave a favourable re­ ception to the programmes proposed subject to the com­ ments set out below. It notes that as a whole the propo­
sal corresponds well to the Opinions formulated by the relevant Advisory Committees on Programme Management.
The GAC takes note of the proposal of the Director- General to stabilize the total staff at the level of
2,260 agents, which includes the reinsertion into the
programme of 222 persons at present assigned . to the exploitation of the ESSOR reactor. This involves an increase in the charges to the Community.
Independently of any question of the programme, it as­ sociates itself with the preoccupations of the JRC as regards the ageing of the staff and encourages the Director- General to formulate proposals to remedy this situation.
The General Advisory Committee takes note of the state­ ment of the JRC that the operational credits set out in documents CCG 250 and CCG 251 represent on average an
increase of only 3 - 4 % in comparison to the average
of the operational credits at net present value allocated to the activities of the JRC as a whole in the 1977 , 1978 and 1979 budgets.
The General Advisory Committee makes the following recommendations on each programme :
The General Advisory Committee unanimously recognizes
the importance of this programme and its good coherence with the actions carried out at national level.
The Committee considered at length the problem of the inclusion of the SUPER-SARA project into this programme. It takes note of the low degree of priority attributed
to the project by the relevant ACPM and of the constraints which its execution would impose ; nevertheless, it reco­ gnizes its interest as "insurance" in the event of an un­ favourable technical development in the analysis of acci­ dents in pressurised reactors; it values the possibilities of international cooperation which it offers .
However, it was not able to arrive at a convergence of opinion on this subject; it would have wished, in the ma­ jority, that the option should not be closed during the first two years of the programme . The Italian members are opposed to any temporary solution.
As regards the project in-pile PAHR, the General Advisory Committee recommends that the study of the feasibility of a European experiment should be actively pursued. The ma- * jority requested the provision from the outset of the financial reserves which, in the event of a favourable result of this study and after receipt of the Opinion of the competent instances, would permit the experimental work to be undertaken without delay.
On the rest of the programme, the General Advisory Com­ mittee endorses the recommendations of the relevant ACPM.
The General Advisory Committee takes note with satisfaction jof the activities undertaken and expresses a favourable
opinion on the programme.
The General Advisory Committee shares the very favourable opinion expressed by the relevant ACPM on projects 1 to 4 of this programme; it emphasizes the importance of using the existing hot cells for experiments of more direct application on industrial scale.
It issues an unfavourable opinion on the decommissioning of the Ispra-1 reactor as set out in project 5 of document CCG 251.
It is for the Director-General to examine whether this de­
commissioning is necessary from safety considerations
and in the light of the actions which will be undertaken in the corresponding indirect action.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable opinion on this programme : it recommends that the in­ crease in staff should be made progressively and in close cooperation with the relevant ACPM.
It records a particular interest in projects 3 (Confinement and Surveillance Techniques) and 4 ( Safeguards System Studies
in the Nuclear Fuel Cycle) . It emphasizes the importance of
cooperation with the IAEA and of the links with the plant operators .
it finally recommends the possible revision of the main lines of the programme after the conclusion of the work of INFCE.
The General Advisory Committee can associate itself with the level of staff proposed by the Director-General, while recommending a certain caution in the deployment of the teams. It approves the contents of the proposal.
The General Advisory Committee endorses the recommendation of the relevant ACPM that the maximum of flexibility in the redirection of this programme should be assured by the
introduction of reviews of its contents at appropriate intervals. Certain members wish that the actions in connection
with the European Test Laboratory should be better defined before their start is considered.
The General Advisory Committee shares the favourable opinion issued by the Consultative Committee for Fusion (CCF) on the proposal as a whole. The General Advisory Committee associa­ tes itself with the concern of certain members , and recom­
mends that the evaluation of hybrid reactors should consti­ tute one particular case only of the conceptual studies.
As regards the preparation of a European Tritium Testing Laboratory, the General Advisory Committee in the majority supports the beginning by the JRC at a minimum efficient level of exploratory studies intended to prepare a decision on the creation of this laboratory at the time of the revi­ sion of the five-year (1979-1983) Plasma Physics and Control­ led Thermonuclear Fusion programme.
The General Advisory Committee notes with satisfaction
the harmonious development of the programme and approves the proposal for the new programme. The Committee expres­ ses the wish that a review at a later stage of the possi­ bility of including a large scale test installation should take place. Some members of the Committee further emphasize that the staff proposed constitute a strict minimum and could be increased.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable opinion on this programme.
The Committee approves the remote sensing programme with the following recommendations :
a) the agricultural projects should be closely coordinated
with the Directorates-General of Agriculture and Develop­ ment Aid and with their relevant Committees.
A choice will have to be made between the projects pre­ sented which cannot all be carried out simultaneously.
b) the JRC should limit itself to demonstration operations and should not take upon itself the setting un of pos­ sible operational systems.
The Committee takes note of the fact that the project "Protection of the Sea" is in conformity with the inter­
national obligations undertaken by the Community (in par­ ticular the Barcelona Convention) .
It records that the activities of the JRC and of the exis­ ting aerospace organizations are complementary and do not constitute duplication of work.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable opinion on the proposal ; it endorses the recommendations of the relevant ACPM.
The General Advisory Committee regrets the reduction proposed for ESIS and its attribution to another programme, and recommends that the Director-General should review this proposal .
Because of the interface with other programmes, the Commit­ tee insists that the ACPMs concerned should keep each other mutually informed.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a generally fa­ vourable opinion on this proposal.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable opinion on this proposal.
One member considers that he cannot take position on the proposal which he regards as not consisting of research.
The majority of the members of the General Advisory Committee note with regret that the proposal consists of a minimal sup­ port to the activities of the Community Bureau of Reference. These members emphasize that the JRC could continue to play
a significant role in this field and regret the proposed re­ duction in the level of activities.
The General Advisory Committee expresses a favourable opinion on these proposals.
The members concerned of the General Advisory Committee express a favourable opinion on this proposal.
Some members of the General Advisory Committee ask that, in the event of the SUPER-SARA project being abandoned, the JRC should consider for ESSOR a solution which is not, in the short term, decommissioning in the sense of the IAEA.
At its meeting on 5 and 6 March 1979 , the Scientific and Technical Committee examined the draft proposal for a 1980-
1983 multiannual programme of the Joint Research Centre (document CCG 250) together with the recommendations of the
General Advisory Committee. The STC has studied in particular the nuclear parts of this programme under article 7 of the EAEC Treaty.
The STC has taken note with satisfaction of the high degree of international cooperation provided for in the programme.
The STC is concerned by the difficulties resulting from the ageing of the staff and by the obstacles in the way of mobi­ lity of the agents.
It recommends the Commission to prepare measures to remedy this situation.
The STC has generally endorsed the recommendations of the General Advisory Committee, but on certain specific points it has formulated the following particular opinions :
The STC shares the very favourable opinion of the GAC on the Reactor Safety programme executed by the JTRC and emphasizes its good coherence with the activities carried out at national level.
The STC's discussion was concentrated above all on the SUPER-SARA project, the usefulness of which it recognizes,
and a decision for which it considers should be made with­ out delay.
The STC has taken note of the relatively low degree of priority attributed to this programme by the relevant ACPM. On the other hand it has taken into consideration
the particular context in which this project is presented and of the possibilities of international cooperation which it offers.
The STC emphasizes that the validity of this programme is connected with its execution as soon as possible.
The Committee further draws attention to the scope and complexity of this undertaking, which will require a special effort.
Taking account of all these elements, the Scientific and Technical Committee issues a favourable opinion on the SUPER-SARA project.
As for the project in-pile PAHR, the STC recommends
that a feasibility study of an in-pile experiment in thisfield'shouldbeactivelypursued. Intheeventof a favourable result of this study, a decision should be taken quickly to enable the work to begin without delay.
The Committee expresses its appreciation of the excellent work carried out by the JRC in the production of hydrogen. It notes that according to the conclusions of this work, the route of pure thermochemical reactions is not econo­ mic in the foreseeable future.
It also notes the reduction of interest m this route due to the progress, slower than foreseen, in the de­ velopment of HTR reactors.
Consequently, the Committee approves the decision of the Commission to reduce the scope of the Hydrogen programme and to reapply the effort to the problems of energy storage.
The Committee insists on the priority to be given to the commissioning and utilization of the cyclotron.
In conclusion the Scientific and Technical Committee expresses a favourable opinion on the draft proposal for a 1980-1983 multiannual programme of the Joint Research Centre.
2) ECDIH s Environmental Chemicals \Data and Information Network. 3) OCS t Ocean Colour Scanner.
Pro gramme rne s ammenho ld t med FPC's ongaver
