Exonérations à L' exportation Article 6
d' exonérations , /
 Proposal for a Directive on the Community
value added tax and excise duty procedure
applicable to the stores of vessels, aircraft .• /
and trains engaged in international transport
 Proposal for a Directive on the Community value added tax
and excise duty procedure applicable to the stores of vessels, aircraft and trains engaged in international transport
(Communication from Mr. Burke to the Commission)
This draft proposal for a Council Directive aims at establishing a Community tax procedure for the supply of stores to vessels , aircraft and trains
used in international transport operations.
A single tax procedure is contemplated covering both value added tax and exciseduties. ThesimilarityoftheproblemsposedintheVATfieldand the excise field calls for such a single procedure which also simplifies the tax arrangements applied to the same transaction.
Also, for these reasons and to maintain consistency in the Commission's initiatives, the tax procedure has been drawn up to align as closely as possible with the customs procedure already presented by the Commission in its proposal for a Regulation sent to the Council on 8 March 1978 (O.J. No. C 73 of 23.3*1978). Furthermore, the latter proposal drew largely on the Sixth Council Directive of 17 May 1977 on value added tax for its principles.
The current draft, based on principles contained in the Sixth Directive, aims at defining the scope of exemptions on importation and exportation both in intra-Community and third country traffic and also at laying down practical rules for applying these exemptions.
The Sixth Directive mentioned above requires that a proposal be made to cover VAT. It is considered that the inclusion of the excise duties is
warranted, despite the relative lack of harmonisation, by the important fiscal role they play having regard to the high levels of rates in force in theMemberStates. Also,thecompletetaxprocedureforatransaction should logically be dealt with in a single Community instrument where conditions so permit.
Conclusion: I propose that the Commission approve the current draft proposal for a directive for transmission to the Council and request that the opinions of the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee be sought.
Customs legislation tranditionally provides for a special procedure for goods to be used as stores for vessels, aircraft and trains used in intei>- national transport operations.
On 8 March 1978 \ the Commission laid before the Council a proposal for a
Regulation designed to establish common rules on the supply of stores to such means of transport.
This customs practice has always been reflected in Member States' tax laws; at Community level, the Sixth Council Directive (77/388/EEC) of 17 May 1977 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes2) likewise embodies the principle of exemption from value added tax
for produces to be used as stores for vessels and aircraft. .
To this end, Article 15 of that Directive, while requiring Member States to
apply the principle of exemption, leaves it to their discretion to lay down
such conditions as will ensure the correct and straightforward application t
of exemptions and prevent by Member States pursuant CoEmLTiity tax legislation
any evasion , avoidance or abuse . Measures taken to this provision will continue to apply until is this field comes into operation.
Now that it has placed before the Council a proposal for a Regulation laying down the customs procedure applicable to stores, the Commission considers that a proposal for a Directive on the relevant tax procedure should be presented to the Council with a view , first , to pressing ahead with harmonisation of the VAT uniform basis of assessment for own resources purposes and, second, to aligning the tax procedure (VAT and excise duties) and the customs procedure applicable to one and the same transaction as closely as possible.
It would naturally fee ideal if the tax rules could "be completely harmonised with those for customs taking account particularly of the need to achieve maximum ease of application of the rules "by the relevant administrativedepartments. However,itshouldherecognisedthatthis goal is not currently within "bounds given the differing degrees of development of harmonisation in the two fields in question evidenced lay the existence of a single customs territory on one hand and national tax territories on the other. In these circumstances, the proposed rules
reflect an attempt to achieve the maximum possible reconciliation*
B. Problems arising in connection with VAT
■\ Before proposing rules for applying the principles laid down in Directive
77/388/EEC in respect of exemptions from value added tax for goods to "be used as stores for vessels and aircraft, the Commission has examined the provisions of the Directive* This examination has revealed that the provisions give rise to a number of problems that must be resolved in the process of framing a coordinated set of Community rules*
The Sixth Directive does not provide for exemptions in respect of the importation of stores on board vessels and aircraft entering the territory as defined in Article 3 thereof*
Article 14 allows exemption only for goods that , "upon importation", are placed under transit arrangements (l (b)) or temporary importation arrangements (l ( c ))* Article 16 provides exemption for the importation of goods to be produced to customs (l*A(a)) or to be placed under free
zone arrangements (l.A(b)), or customs warehousing arrangements (^.A(c)), or warehousing arrangements other than customs ( l*A(e ))* None of these
possibilities is suited to allowing an exemption in respect of the importation of stores on board vessels or aircraft.
This is because Article 7 of the Sixth Directive stipulates that the importation of goods means their entry into the territory of the country
as defined in~ Article 3. Now, territorial waters and airspace must be considered as being within the territory of the country* As a consequence,
stores on board a vessel or aircraft pould, upon its arrival in territorial
waters or national airspace, have to be placed under one or other of th-e
aforementioned arrangements . As a result , the stores on board could n consumed, since the arrangements in question specifically rule out consumption within the territory of the country . For this reason , once the vessel or aircraft had reached its destination, declarations for home
' use would have to be made for stores consumed on the journey between the point of arrival in the territory of the country and the place at which the formalities for obtaining application of the arrangements mentioned above can be completed.
As things stand at present, taxation of certain goods consumed could be avoided under Article 14(l)(d), but this is not a satisfactory solution since the consumption of other goods would be taxable as transactions effected within the territory of the country. However, even where this provision is concerned, the Directive stipulates that detailed implementing rules are to be laid down (Article 14(2)).
For the above reasons , Community rules are needed which , while being
derived from the Sixth Directive , would go one step further by allowing an exemption for stores consumed up to the point of destination within, the territory of the country. , .
Article 15 makes express provision for exemptions in respect of the exportation of goods for the fuelling and provisioning of vessels (paragraph 4) and aircraft (paragraph 7)•
These exemptions are subject to certain conditions as to principle which themselves need to be defined.
These conditions should be spelt out in the form of Community tax rules which, being required to fill certain gaps, must be based on an inter­ pretation of the scope of the exemptions for stores referred to in Article 15.
Paragraph 4(a) requires the Member States to allow an exemption for the supply of stores intended for vessels used for carrying passengers for reward or for the purpose of commercial , industrial or fishing activities , on condition that the vessels are used for navigation on the high seas.
However, it should be noted that the vessels not only must be used for navigation on the high seas, but must also be engaged in an international transport «p«ration,as indicated in the title of Article 15»
 high seas . Furthermore , vessels "being used for navigation seas that set out from and return to the same Member State
excluded , since they , are not carrying out an international operation .
on the high are also
Consequently, vessels engaged in coastal navigation are excluded from the exemption in respect of stores, even where carrying out an international transport operation, since they are not being used for navigation on the
This interpretation is confirmed by the special exemptions laid down in Article 15(4)(b) in respect of vessels that will never be able to satisfy all the prescribed conditions, and in paragraph 4(c) in respect of vessels that, although they operate on international routes are not used for international carriage.
Article 15 also provides for exemption in respect of stores loaded on
board certain aircraft. An interpretation of paragraphs 6 and 7 is needed, in order to determine the exact scope of this exemption. ,
Paragraph 6 provides for an exemption tied to the activities of the airline it was not possible to lay down an exemption linked to the use to which each aircraft is put, the reason being that aircraft can be used alternatively in international and domestic traffic. When the Sixth Directive was adopted, it was felt that an exemption linked to use would have necessitated accounting arrangements which would be very difficult to introduce for determining the deductible proportion applicable to the airline in respect of each (f the activities referred to in paragraph 6 (purchase, repair and maintenance of each aircraft). >
Paragraph 7 provides for exemption in respect of the supply of stores to aircraft referred to in paragraph 6. A literal interpretation of this
text would mean that all the aircraft used by an airline operating chiefly on international routes would qualify for this exemption even in respect
cf domestic flights, whereas aircraft belonging to an airline operating on domestic routes would not qualify, even where they undertook international flights . This is because , in this last case , a domestic airline would not fall within the scope of paragraph 7, nor would it be covered by paragraph :
 or 2 of the same Article , as the conditions laid down therein would not he met. Someofthestoreswouldbeconsumedwithintheterritoryofthe
country as referred to in Article 3 (and this is prohibited under Article \
15(l) and (2)), and a domestic airline, which tjy definition is established within the territory of the country, could not avail itself of paragraph 2.
Paragraph 7, then, must be interpreted to.mean that unlike paragraph 6 it does not apply to airlines but to aircraft used on international routes by any airline.
Leaving aside compliance with certain principles of equity in the fields of taxation and competition, the analogy with the exemptions laid down for vessels and the very form and organisation of the Sixth Directive are arguments in favour of such an interpretation.
The conclusions is that, here too, Community rules are needed in order to remedy these difficulties.
3. Inland waterway transport
The Sixth Directive does not expressly provide for any exemption in respect
of stores for vessels engaged in international inland waterway transport y<
or traffic, i.e. navigation on international inland waterways.
Under Article 15(2), however, a vessel owned "ty a person not established within the territory of the country would be allowed to take on stores exempt from tax provided it was engaged in international traffic, i.e.
provided it was to set out from that country and was bound for another. However, because of its geographical position, one Member State has been authorised to apply an exemption - similar to that applicable to sea^-going vessels – in respect of all inland waterway vessels engaged exclusively in internationaltrafficandcarryinggoodsforreward. Thereisanobvious
contradictionbetweenthetwoprocedures. Theauthorisationallowsvessels
engaged in international transport to ,take <?n stores free of tax (with the sole exception of catering supplies) – even vessels registered in the Member State in questions but paragraph 2 confines this exemption (with no restriction as to type of supplies) to foreign vessels. The problem
of exemption for stores consumed up to the point of departure from the territory of the Member State is left unresolved.
This leaves the practical problem of international inland waterway transport . I
A restrictive interpretation of the Sixth Directive could lead to inland waterway vessels being stopped at each frontier to allow tax to be charged
on the supplies on board. To take a practical example, let us suppose that a vessel takes on exempt stores in country A and that it must cress the territories of countries B and C, in order to reach the country of destination D. At the frontier with country B, the quantity of stores ,
• necessary for the journey through the country would have to be declared for home use while, on the basis of Article 14(l)(b), the other products would have to be placed under transit arrangements. The same procedure • Would have to be followed when the vessel passed through country C until it reached the frontier with country D, at which point the remaining goods would have to be declared for home use. The drawbacks of this procedure are obvious: formalities attaching to the declaration for transit arrangements and that for home use, estimation of the requirements for each leg of the journey, monitoring difficulties. )
If we now suppose that the same vessel takes on stores in country A and the tax thereon is paid, because it does not qualify for the exemption provided for in Article 15(2) owing to the fact that its owner is established in the country of provisioning} and supposing that it follows the same itinerary
as the one above:
journey through the territory of the countries concerned could be placed under transit arrangements at each frontier, but double taxation of stores consumed could not be avoided .
in this case stores in excess of those required for the
 posed by the supply of stores to vessels, it would seem logical with these supplies as regards taxation , in a single directive . the Directive under discussion would certainly not have as wide
In order to remedy "these drawbacks, even though the Sixth Directive lays down no unequivocal stipulations in the matter, rules governing the provisioning of such vessels are needed, and these could be arrived at on the "basis of a certain analogy between international inland waterway transport and international sea transport; such rules must incorporate limiting conditions to prevent any abuse and provisions to streamline frontier formalities,
C. Problems arising in connection with excise duties
Where stores and particularly catering supplies are concerned, excise duties are the largest single component of taxation . Generally speaking , the excise duties on manufactured tobacco products , alcoholic beverages , motor fuels and lubricants are much higher than VAT and customs duties.
Although excise duties have not been harmonised (except under the Directives concerning manufactured tobacco products), the Commission does not regard this as a fundamental obstacle to inclusion of excise duties in this
proposal, since it covers only a small part of the structure of the excise duties in question ; in other words , the proposal lays down merely the conditions that products normally subject to excise duties must satisfy
in order to qualify for exemption where they are to be used as stores for the aforementioned means of transport .
In addition, since the supplies in question are generally goods subject
to three types of charge - customs duties , VAT and excise duties - which are levied and monitored upon importation by the same administrative departments in Member States, and in view of the similarity of the problems
a scope, since, in most cases , it would not cover all the tax arrangements for
transactions involving stores .
D# Comparison between the proposed tax procedure and the proposed customs
With regard to the provisions proposed to cover stores for vessels carrying out international sea transport operations, the Commission has kept in mind the need to "bring the tax legislation (encompassing both VAT and excise duties ) into line with the proposed customs legislation# For this reason , the present proposal for a Directive retains most of the definitions given in Article 1 of the proposal for a customs Regulation.
However, the definition of "international sea transport" has been amended to take account of the scope of Article 15(4)(c) of the Sixth Directive. This amendment will mean, for instance , that , for the provisioning of vessels of war, the exemption conditions in the tax field will differ from those in the customs field .
As regards stores for vessels engaged in international inland waterway- transport, the Commission feels that the tax aspect should be governed., by provisions similar to those proposed in the customs field.
As regards stores for aircraft, the Commission takes the view that the relevant customs provisions should also apply in the tax field.
As regards stores for international trains, the proposed Regulation lays down the relevant customs procedure. This procedure has already been introduced in all Member States in accordance with the Recommendation of the Customs Cooperation Council of 16 June i960.
Although the Sixth VAT Directive does not expressly lay down the principle of a procedure for the supply of stores to international trains, the provisions contained in the proposal for a Regulation do not conflict with the provisions of that Directive , and in particular Articles 14(l ) and 15(2) thereof. However, since most alcoholic beverages and all tobacco products are excluded from the duty-free arrangements, the proposed procedure in the customs field is not as liberal as the value added tax procedure that could be applied under the Sixth Directive#
Nevertheless, to obviate checks at internal frontiers and at the same time to avoid harming the " companies' " interests , the Commissions proposed
solutions in the tax field are identical to those suggested in the customs field .
Proposal for a Directive on the Community value added tax and excise duty procedure applicable to the stores of vessels, aircraft and trains
engaged in international transport
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 99 and 100 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission, Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament ,
Having .regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas Article 15 of the Sixth Council Directive of 17 May 1977 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes – Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment contains provisions for exempting , subject to certain conditions , the supply of goods loaded as stores on board sea-going vessels and aircraft engaged in international traffic;
Whereas, although the Directive referred to above does not contain any specific provisions for exemption in respect of the importation of stores on board sea-going vessels and aircraft engaged in international traffic,
Member States were able to exempt importation of such stores on the basis of general provisions contained in the said Directive;
Whereas the same is true of the provisioning of vessels to be used for
international inland waterway transport and of international trains;
Whereas, however, the general provisions in question are not suited to the requirements peculiar to the transactions concerned; whereas application thereof to the said transactions in any case necessitates an interpretation of the above Directive; whereas this may lead to the application of divergent provisions as between Member States and whereas such divergencies might distort the conditions of competition within the Community ; -
''-- ·1 Whereas, therefore, the stores referred, to herein ought to be subject to a specific Community procedure in the field of value added tax that must
enter into force in its entirety upon or prior to the expiry of the transitional period, provided for in the aforementioned. Directive for the gradual adaptation of national legislation;
Whereas, having regard to the similarity of the problems arising in connection with value added tax and excise duties and in order to simplify the tax rules applicable to a given transaction, a single procedure should be adopted for all these charges; whereas the said single tax procedure must itself be as similar as possible to the Community provisions laid down in respect x>f customs duties,
1. This Directive lays down the Community procedure for value added tar and excise duties applicable to goods intended for consumption on "board
vessels, aircraft and trains engaged in international transport, herein­ after call " stores",
2. For the purposes of this Directive:
(a) "stores" means catering supplies, fuels, lubricants and other oils for technical use, and sundry stores; *
– "catering supplies" means any products intended solely for consumption on "board by crew members and passengers,
– "fuels, lubricants and other oils for technical use" means products intended for feeding the propulsion units and operating other machinery and plant on board,
– "sundry stores" means any consumable care and maintenance product and any consumable products used for the on-board preservation, treatment or preparation of the goods carried or as feedingstuffs for the animals carried;
(b) "vessels" means any vessels falling within headings No. 89*01 and No, 89,02 and subheading No. 89,03, of the Common Customs Tariff;
(c) "pleasure vessels" or "private aircraft" means vessels or aircraft used by the owner or the natural or legal person who enjoys their use either through hire or through any other means, for purposes other than commercial purposes and in particular other than for
the carriage of passengers for payment, reward or any other material advantage and other than for the industrial and commercial carriage of goods, whether or not against payment;
(d) "ports" means "both port installations proper and roadsteads or any other mooring points authorised "by the competent authorities ;
(e) "aircraft" means power-driven heavier-than-air aircraft (including helicopters );
(f) "international sea transport" means transport carried out "by sea "by
a vessel setting out from one Member State and hound for
Member State or for a non-Member country , or vice versa , transport carried out between French territory in Europe
French overseas departments or between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Island of Heligoland or between Denmark and Greenland , or vice versa ; a vessel engaged in navigation on the high-seas in pursuance of a commercial, industrial or fishing activity other than a transport activity shall be treated as engaged in international sea -transport , provided such vessel
remains at sea for more than forty-eight hours;
(g) "international inland waterway transport" means transport carried out on a lake, river or canal by a vessel setting out from a Member State and bound for another country, or vice versa and transport carried out on the following waterways:
- The Rhine and its tributaries and the other waterways referred to in Article 2 of the revised Mannheim Convention of
17 October 1868 for the Navigation of the Rhine;
- the Scheldt as far as Antwerp and the Terneuzen canal as far as Ghent f
- the Moselle, from its confluence with the Rhine as far as Metz; which are hereinafter referred to as "international waterways".
(h) "international air transport" means transport carried out by an aircraft taking off in one Member State and bound for another Member State or for a non-Member country , or vice versa , and transport carried out between French territory in Europe and the
* French overseas departments or between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Island of Heligoland or between Denmark and Greenland , or vice versa :
another and
and the
(i) "international trains" means trains running from a point of
departure in the Community to a destination in a non-Member country, or vice versa, and trains running "between two Member States, whether or not via a non-Member country:
(j) "excise duties" means any charges other than turnover, taxes levied
on the production or consumption of goods*
3. Fuels, lubricants and other oils from technical use are considered to
be products intended for consumption on board where they are intended for use :
- by aircraft on board vessels engaged in international navigation on assignment; ■ .
- for in-flight provisioning of aircraft themselves engaged in international air transport.
Exemptions on importation Article 2
Member States shall not levy value added tax or excise duties in respect of the importation of stores on board:
1. avesselengagedininternationalseatransportwhichentersterritorial waters bound for a port situated on their territory, until the vessel arrives in that port;
2. avesselengagedininternationalinlandwaterwaytransportwhich ; enters their territory:
(a) for the whole duration of the voyage, if this takes place exclusively in waters having international status;
(b) in all other cases, as far as the port of final destination situated in the inland waters of a Member State. . •* v
3» anaircraftengagedininternationalairtransportandboundforanair­ port situated on their territory, until the aircraft arrives at that,
Member States shall exempt from value added tax and excise duties supplies of stores consumed on board a means of transport referred to in Article 2:
1. until it reaches a destination referred to in Article 2;
2. during the journey "between ports of call or stops situated on their territory , provided thats
(a) these ports of call or stops are part of the normal itinerary to the final destination;
(b) no passengers or freight are embarked at any of these ports of call or stops in order to be disembarked at another;
However, where passengers or freight are embarked at any of these ports of call to be disembarked at another, fuel on board a means of transport in the normal tanks shall be exempt.
3. during the entire period of stay in a port or shipyard or at an air­ port, provided that this period does not exceed the usual period necessary to achieve the purposes for which the said means of transport carries out the international transport operation which it,has under­ taken.
Article 3 shall not apply to:
(a) catering supplies on boards
- a vessel whilst it is out of commission or whilst it is being used for purposes other than those for which it is normally engaged in international sea transport;
- a vessel used as a floating residence or a floating restaurant, hotel or casino, or for similar purposes, during the entire period of its stay in a port or in the territorial or inland waters of a Member State ;
- a pleasure vessel during the entire period of its stay in a port or in the territorial or inland waters of a Member State where such
supplies were not purchased in the country of provisioning in accordance with the general tax arrangements applicable on that , country*s domestic market;
- a vessel belonging to the administrative services or a military vessel flying the flag of a Member State , during the entire period of its stay in a port or in the territorial or inland waters of that State ;
- a fishing vessel , save for a vessel , engaged in high-sea fishing , registered in a Member State, during the entire period of its stay in that State;
- a vessel engaged in international inland waterway transport in the customs territory of the Community where such supplies were not purchased in the country of provisioning in accordance with the
general tax arrangements applicable on that country*s domestic market ;
(b) fuels other than those contained in standard-size tanks directly connected to the propulsion units or other machinery and plant on board to be fed therewith .
' Member States shall suspend the levying of value added tax and excise duties in respect of the importation of stores on board a means of transport referred to in Article 2 at the time of its arrival at its destination , provided that such stores are : 1
(a) kept on board under customs or tax control;
(b) transferred, under the control and with the authorisation of the competent authorities, to other means of transport situated in the
same port or airport and intended for use in an international transport operation which confers entitlement to the exemption referred to in
Articles 6 and 7»
(c) placed, under one of the arrangements provided for in Article l6(l)(A> or in Article 14(l)(b) and (c) of Council Directive 77/388/EEC of
Exemption on exportation Article 6
Member States shall exempt from value added tax and excise duties the supply of stores loaded on board :
1. a vessel engaged in international sea transport;
2. a vessel engaged in international inland waterway transport, with the exception of catering supplies intended for consumption in the customs territory of the Community;
3. an aircraft engaged in international air transport.
The exemption referred to in the preceding paragraph shall also be granted
in respect of the supply of stores loaded on board such means of transport
during a stay or at a port of call or airport in a Member State, subject to >
the conditions and within the limits laid down in Article 3«
1. Article 6 shall apply to the. supply of stores, with the exception of catering supplies , loaded on board :
– coastal fishing vessels,
- vessels used for life-saving and assistance at sea,
even if these vessels do not sail outside territorial waters.
' -m However,' catering supplies loaded on board vessels used for life-saving and
assistance at sea are exempt where the vessel remains at sea for more than forty-eight hours.
2. Article 6 shall not apply to the supply of stores loaded on board: (a) pleasure vessels;
(b) fishing vessels operating in fresh water;
B. the fuels are contained in standard-size tanks directly connected
to the plant to he fed therewith.
The exemption shalll not apply to : •
(a) alcoholic beverages and other products containing alcohol, with the exception of beer, still wine and sparkling wine; -
(b) tobacco and tobacco products# t
Stores for international trains Article 8
1. Member States shall not levy value added tax or excise duties in respect of the importation of stores on "board international trains where the following conditions are met:
the catering supplies :
- do not exceed the quantities normally necessary for the needs of the person carried during the journey to and from their destination :
- have "been purchased in the country of provisioning in accordance with the general tax arrangements applicable on that country's domestic market;
3. Stores on board international trains at the time of their arrival at the station of destination may:
– be kept on board under customs or tax control, or
– be transferred, under the control and with^the authorisation of the competent authorities, to other international trains at the same station .
4 . Without prejudice to paragraph 3 , where stores are intended for consump+ion within the customs territory of the Community, only products purchased in accordance with the general tax arrangements applicable on the domestic market of the country of provisioning may be loaded on board international trains which are ready for departure*
Member .States shall take the legal , regulatory and administrative provisions necessary to prevent fraud and abuse.
To this end, Member States may:
1. by way of derogation from Articles 3 and 8
- place under seal any stores in excess of those necessary for the proper operation of the means of transport and for the normal needs of crew members and passengers;
2. by way of derogation from Article 6 ,/
- refuse to authorise the loading of exempt stores where the conditions of a journey to be carried out by the means of transport do not justify consumption thereof:
- determine the quantities of stores to be embarked and refuse to
authorise the loading of stores in excess of those needed for the international journey in question , taking into account :
(a) the means of transport and the nature and estimated duration of the journey; ,
(b) the number of crew members and passengers;
(c) the quantity of stores already on board the means of transport.
The provisions of this Directive shall not prevent the application:
(a) -of more restrictive measures in force in Member States under agreements to ensure reciprocity of treatment;
("b) of special measures laid down in respect of foreign armed forces stationed on Member States* territory in pursuance of international conventions: 1 1 .
(c) of special agreements concluded by Member States authorising aircraft of non-Member countries or other Member States to operate freight or passenger services between two points in their territory;
(d) of conventions concluded between a Member State and a non-Member country or an international organisation containing provisions not consistent with this Directive;
Final provisions
1. MemberStatesshallputintoeffectthemeasuresnecessarytocomply with this Directive not later than 1 January 1981 and shall inform the Commissionthereof. However,MemberStateswhichhaveavailedthemselves
of the options referred to in Article 28 of Directive 77/338/EEC may retain the national provisions falling within the scope of this Directive until 1 January 1983.
2. MemberStatesshallcommunicatetotheCommissionthetextsofthe s
main provisions of national law which they subsequently adopt in the field governed by this Directive.
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
The President
de boordproviand : , -
Brussels - 11 January 1980
Proposal for a COUNCIL DIRECTIVE
on the Community value added tax/end excise duty procedure applicable to
the stores of vessels, aircraft and international trains
( submitted to the Council by the Commission )
Customs legislation tranditionally provides for a special procedure for . - goods to be used as stores for vessels, aircraft and tradns used in inter– • national transport operations.
On 8 March 1978^\ the Commission laid "before the Council a proposal for a .. Regulation designed to establish common rules on the supply of stores to
such means of transport.
This customs practice has always teen reflected in Member States* tax laws;
at Community level, the Sixth Council Directive (77/388/SEC) of 17 May 1977
on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover
To this end, Article 15 of that Directive, while requiring Member States to apply the principle of exemption, leaves it to their discretion to lay down such conditions as will ensure the correct and straightforward application of exemptions and prevent any evasion , avoidance or abuse . Measures taken by Member States pursuant to this provision will continue to apply until Community tax legislation is this field comes into operation.
Now that it has placed before the Council a proposal for a Regulation laying dovm the customs procedure applicable to stores, the Commission considers that a proposal for a Directive on the relevant tax procedure should be presented to the Council with a view , first , to pressing ahead with harmonisation of, the VAT uniform basis of assessment for own resources purposes- and, second, to aligning the tax procedure (VAT and excise duties) and the customs procedure applicable to one and the same transaction as -closely as possible.
taxes likewise embodies the principle of exemption from value added tax for products to be used as- stores for vessels and aircraft.
It would naturally toe ideal if the tax rules could "be completely
' harmonised with those for customs taking account particularly of the
need to achieve maximum ease of application of the rules "by the relevant , administrative departments. However, it should "be recognised that this goal is not currently within hounds given the differing degrees of development of harmonisation in the two fields in question evidenced "by the existence of a single customs territory on one hand and national tax territories on the other. In these circumstances, the proposed rules reflect an attempt to achieve the maximum possible reconciliation.
 B. Problems arising in connection with VAT
Before proposing rules for applying the principles laid down in Directive 77/388/EEC in respect of exemptions from value added tax for goods to be used as stores for vessels and aircraft, the Commission has examined the- provisionsoftheDirective. Thisexaminationhasrevealedthatthe provisions give rise to a number of problems that must be resolved in the process of framing a coordinated set of Community rules.
The Sixth Directive does not .provide for exemptions in respect of the importation of stores on board vessels and aircraft" entering the territory as defined in Artiole 3 thereof.
Article 14 allows exemption only for goods that, "upon importation", are
placed under, transit arrangements (l (b)) or temporary importation
arrangements (l (c)). Article 16 provides exemption for the importation
of goods to be produced to customs (l.A(a)) or to be placed under free
Zone arrangements (l.A(b)), or customs warehousing arrangements (l.A(c)),
orwarehousingarrangementsotherthancustoms(l.A(e)). Honeofthese
possibilities is suited to allowing an exemption in respect of the .I■*
importation of stores on board vessels or aircraft.
This is because Article 7 of the Sixth Directive stipulates that the importation of goods means their entry into the territory of the country asdefinedinArticle3* Now,territorialwatersandairspacemustbe consideredasbeingwithintheterritoryofthecountry. Asaconsequence, stores on board a vessel or aircraft would, upon its arrival in territorial
waters or national airspace, have to be placed under one or other of the aforementionedarrangements. Asaresult,thestoresonboardcouldnotbe consumed, since the arrangements in question specifically rule out consumption within the territory of the country. For this reason, once the vessel or aircraft had reached its destination, declarations for home use would have to be made for stores consumed on the journey between the. ' point of arrival in the territory of the country and the place at which the
formalities for obtaining application of the arrangements mentioned-above can be completed.
As things stand at present , taxation of certain goods consumed could be avoided under Article 14(l)(d), "but this is not a satisfactory solution since the consumption of other goods would "be taxable as transactions effected within the territory of the country. However, even where this provision is concerned , the Directive stipulates that detailed' implementing rules are to be laid down (Article 14(2)).
For the above reasons , Community rules are needed which , while being derived from the Sixth Directive , would go one step further by allowing an exemption for stores consumed up to the point of destination within the territory of the country.
Article 15 makes express provision for exemptions in respect of the exportation of goods for the fuelling and provisioning of vessels (paragraph 4) and aircraft (paragraph 7)•
These exemptions are subject to certain conditions as to principle which themselves need to be defined.
These conditions should be spelt out in the form of Community tax rules which," being required to fill certain gaps, must be based on an inter­ pretation of the scope of the exemptions for stores referred to in Article 15. 1
Paragraph 4(a) requires the Member States to allow an exemption for the supply of stores intended for vessels used for carrying passengers for reward or for the purpose of commercial , industrial or fishing activities , on condition that the vessels are used for navigation on the high seas.
However, it should be noted that the vessels not only must be used for navigation on the high seas, but must also be engaged in an international transport operation,as indicated in the title of Article 15.
 Consequently , vessels engaged in coastal , navigation are excluded from the exemption in respect of stores, even where carrying out an international transport operation, since they are not being used for navigation on the high seas . Furthermore , vessels "being used for navigation on the high
seas that set out from and return to the same Member State are also *'
excluded, since they are not carrying out an international transport operation .
This interpretation is confirmed by the special exemptions laid down in , Article 15(4)("b) in respect of vessels that will never he able to satisfy all the prescribed conditions, and in paragraph 4(c) in respect of vessels that, although they operate on international routes are not used for
Article 15 also provides for exemption in respect of stores loaded on _
board certain aircraft. An interpretation of paragraphs 6 and 7 is needed, in order to determine the exact scope of this exemption.
Paragraph 6 provides for an exemption tied to the activities of the airline: it was not possible to lay down an exemption linked to the use to which
each aircraft is put, the reason being that aircraft can be used alternatively in international and domestic traffic. When the Sixth Directive was adopted, it was felt that an exemption linked to use would - have necessitated accounting arrangements which would be very difficult to introduce for determining the deductible proportion applicable to the airline in respect of each cf the activities referred to in paragraph 6
( purchase , repair and maintenance of each aircraft ).
Paragraph 7 provides for exemption in respect of the supply of stores to, aircraft referred to in paragraph 6. A literal interpretation of this text would mean that all the.aircraft used by an airline operating chiefly on international routes would qualify for this exemption even in respect
of domestic flights, whereas aircraft belonging to an airline operating on domestic routes would not .qualify, even where they undertook international flights. This is.because, in this last case, a domestic airline would not fall within the scope of paragraph 7 , nor would it be covered by paragraph 1
or 2 of the same Article, as the conditions laid down therein would not "be
met. Some of the stores would "be consumed within the territoiy of the country as referred to in Article 3 (and this is prohibited under Artiol® 15(l) and (2)), and a domestic airline, which "by definition is established
within the territory of the country, could not avail itself of paragraph 2.
Paragraph 7» then, must he interpreted to mean that unlike paragraph 6 it does not apply to airlines hut to aircraft used on international routes "by any airline.
Leaving aside compliance with certain principles of equity in the fields of taxation and competition, the analogy with the exemptions laid down for vessels and the very form and organisation of the Sixth Directive are arguments in favour of such an interpretation.
The conclusions is that, here too, Community rules are needed in order to remedy these difficulties . , .
3. Inland waterway transport
The Sixth Directive does not expressly provide for any exemption in respect of stores for vessels engaged in international inland waterway transport
or traffic, i.e. navigation on international inland waterways.
Under Article 15(2), however, a vessel owned by a person not established within the territory of the country would be allowed to take on stores exempt from tax provided it was engaged in international traffic, i.e.
provided it was to set out from that country and was bound for another. However , because of its geographical position , one Member State has been authorised to apply an exemption – similar to that applicable to sea-going vessels – in respect of all inland waterway vessels engaged exclusively in
international traffic and cariying goods for reward. There is an obvious
contradiction between the two procedures. The authorisation allows vessels
 cngaged in .international transport to take on stores free of tax (with the sole exception of catering supplies) – even vessels registered in the
Member State in question: but paragraph 2 confines this exemption (with
no restriction as to type of supplies) to foreign vessels. The problem
of exemption for stores consumed, up to the point of departure from the territory of the Member State is left unresolved. . \
This leaves the practical problem of international inland waterway transport
A restrictive interpretation of the Sixth Directive could lead to inland waterway vessels being stopped at each frontier to allow tax to be charged
on the supplies on board. To take a practical example, let us suppose that„a vessel takes on exempt stores in country A and that it must cross the territories of countries B and C in order to reach the country of destination D. At the frontier with country B, the quantity of stores necessary for the journey through the country would have to be declared ' for home use while, on the basis of Article 14(l)(b), the other products would have to be placed under transit arrangements. The same procedure would have to be followed when the vessel passed through country C until
it reached the frontier with country D, at which point the remaining goods would have to be declared for home use. The drawbacks of this procedure are obvious: formalities attaching to the declaration for transit ' arrangements and that for home use, estimation of the requirements for
each leg of the journey, monitoring difficulties.
If we now suppose that the same vessel takes on stores in country A and the tax thereon is. paid, because it does not qualify for the exemption provided for in Article 15(2) owing to the fact that its owner is established in the
country of provisioning; and supposing that it follows the same itinerary as the one above: in this case stores in excess of those required for the journey through the territory of the countries concerned could be placed under transit arrangements at each frontier, but double taxation of stores
consumed could not be avoided .
 In order to remedy these drawbacks, even though the Sixth Directive lays down no unequivocal stipulations in the matter, rules governing the provisioning of such vessels are needed, and these could "be arrived at on the basis of a certain analogy between international inland waterway transport and international sea transport; such rules must incorporate limiting conditions to prevent any abuse and provisions to streamline frontier formalities.
C. Problems arising in connection with excise duties
Where stores and particularly catering supplies are concerned, excise dutiesarethelargestsinglecomponentoftaxation. Generallyspeaking, the excise duties on manufactured tobacco products, alcoholic beverages, motor fuels and lubricants are much higher than VAT and customs duties.
Although excise duties have not been harmonised (except under the Directives concerning manufactured tobacco products), the Commission does not regard this as a fundamental obstacle to inclusion of excise duties in this
proposal, since it covers only a small part of the structure of the excise duties in question; in other words, the, proposal lays dowii merely the conditions that products normally subject to excise duties must satisfy in order to qualify for exemption where they are to be used as stores for the aforementioned means of transport.
In addition, since the supplies in question are generally goods subject
to three types of charge – customs duties, VAT and excise duties – which are levied and monitored upon importation by the same administrative departments in Member States, and in view of the similarity of the problems posed by the supply of stores to vessels, it would seem logical to deal withthesesuppliesasregardstaxation,inasingledirective. Otherwise, the Directive under discussion would certainly not have as wide a scope , since, in most cases, it would not cover all the tax arrangements for transactions involving stores.
D. Comparison "between the proposed tax procedure and the proposed customs procedure ' v
With regard to the provisions proposed to cover stores for vessels cariying out international sea transport operations, the Commission has kept in mind the need to "bring the tax legislation (encompassing "both VAT and excise duties) into line with the proposed customs legislation. For this reason, the present proposal for a Directive retains most of* the definitions given in Article 1 of the proposal for a customs Regulation.
However, the definition of "international sea transport" has been amended to take account of the scope of Article 15(4)(c) of the Sixth Directive. This amendment will mean, for instance , that , for the provisioning of vessels of war, . the exemption conditions in the tax field will differ from those in the customs field .
As regards stores for vessels engaged in international inland waterway - transport, the Commission feels that the tax aspect should "be governed
"by provisions similar to those proposed in the customs field.
As regards stores for aircraft, the Commission takes the view that the relevant customs provisions should also apply in the tax field. •
As regards stores for international trains, the proposed Regulation lays down the relevant customs procedure. This procedure has already "been introduced in all Member States in accordance with the Recommendation of the Customs Cooperation Council of 16 June I960.
Although the Sixth VAT Directive does not expressly lay down the principle of a procedure for the supply of stores to international trains, the provisions contained in the proposal for a Regulation do not conflict with the provisions of that Directive , and in particular Articles 14(l ) aiid
15(2 ) thereof . However , since most alcoholic "beverages and all tobacco products are excluded from the duty–free arrangements, the proposed procedure in the customs field is not as liberal as the value added tax procedure that could be applied under the Sixth Directive,
Nevertheless, to obviate checks at internal frontiers and at the same time to avoid harming the " companies*" interests , the Commission* s proposed
solutions in the tax field are identical to those suggested in the customs field .
on tl>e Community value added tax and excise duty procedure applicable to
the stores of vessels, aircraft and international trains
THE COUNCIL OP THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES, - Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community.
and in particular Articles 99 a^d 100 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas Article 15 of the Sixth Council Directive 77/388/EEC of 17 May 1977 on the harmonization of the laws of the. Member States relating to turnover.
contains provisions for exempting , -subject to certain conditions , the supply of goods loaded as stores on board sea-going vessels and aircraft engaged in
Whereas, although the Directive referred to above does not contain any specific provisions for exemption in respect of the importation of stores on "board sea-going vessels and aircraft engaged in international traffic,
Member States were able to exempt importation of such stores on the basis of general provisions contained in the said Directive ;
Whereas the same is true of the provisioning of vessels to be used for international inland waterway transport and of international trains;
Whereas , however , the general provisions in question are not suited to the requirements peculiar to the transactions concerned; whereas
- application thereof to the said transactions in any case necessitates an interpretation of the above Directive; whereas this may lead to the application of divergent provisions as between Member States and whereas
such divergencies might distort the conditions of competition within the
taxes Common system of value added tax : uniform basis of assessment
Whereas, "therefore, the stores referred to herein ought to he subject to a specific Community procedure in the field of value added tax that must enter into force in its entirety upon or prior to the expiry of the transitional period provided for in the aforementioned Directive for the gradual adaptation of national Laws;
Whereas; having regard to the similarity of the problems arising in connection with value added tax and excise duties and in order to simplify the tax rules applicable to a given transaction, a single procedure should
be adopted for all these charges; whereas the said single tax procedure must itself be as similar as possible to the Community provisions laid down
in respect of customs duties, HAS ADOPTED THIS DIRECTIVE :
1. ThisDirectivelaysdowntheCommunityprocedureforvalueaddedtax \
and excise duties applicable to goods intended for consumption on board vessels, aircraft and trains engaged in international transport, herein­ after call "stores".
(u.) "stores" means catering supplies, fuels, lubricants and other oils for technical use, and sundry stores; *
– "catering supplies" means any products intended solely for consumption on board by crew members or passengers,
– "fuels, lubricants and other oils for technical use" means products intended for feeding the propulsion units and operating other machinery and equipment on board,
– "sundry stores" means any consumable care and maintenance products and any consumable products used for the on–board preservation,
treatment or preparation of the goods carried or as feedingstuffs for animals carried; . • '
(l>) "vessels" means any vessels falling within headings No. 89*01 and No. 89.02 and subheading 89.03 A of the.Common Customs Tariff;
(c) "pleasure vessels" or "private aircraft" means vessels or aircraft
used" by the owner thereof or the natural or legal person who enjoys their use either through hire or through any other -means, for purposes other than commercial purposes and in particular other than for the carriage of passengers for payment, reward or any other material advantage and other than for the industrial or commercial
carriage of goods, whether or not against payment; '
(d) "ports" means both port installations proper and roadsteads or any other mooring points authorised "by the competent authorities ;
(f) "international sea transport" means" transport carried out "by sea "by a vessel setting out from one Member State and "bound for another Member State or for a non-member country , or vice versa , and transport carried out between French territory in Europe and the French overseas departments or between the Federal Republic of Gennany and the Island of Heligoland or between Denmark and Greenland , or vice versa ; a vessel engaged in navigation on the high seas in pursuance of a commercial, industrial or fishing • activity other than a transport activity shall be treated as engaged in international sea transport, provided such vessel remains at sea for more than forty–eight hours;
(g) "international inland waterway transport" means transport carried out on a lake , river or canal "by a vessel setting out from a Member
. State and bound for another Member State or non-member countries, or
vi ce-ver sa and transport carried out within the customs territory - of the Community on the following waterways: \
- The Rhine and its tributaries and the other waterways referred to in Article 2 of the revised Mannheim Convention of
17 October 1868 for the Navigation of the Rhine;
- the Scheldt as far as Antwerp and the Terneuzen canal as far as Ghent }
- the Moselle , ~ from its confluence with the Rhine as far as Metz ; which are hereinafter referred to as "international waterways".
(h) "international air transport" means transport carried out by an aircraft talcing off in one Member State and bound for" another
' Member State or for a non–member country, or vice versa, and transport carried out between French territory in Europe and the - French overseas departments or between the Federal Republic of Germany and the Island of Heligoland or between Denmark and Greenland , or vice versa ;
(i) "international trains" means trains running from a point of - departure in the Community to a destination in a non-member country, or vice verna . and trains running between two Member States , whether or not via a non-member country;
(j) "excise duties" means any charges other than turnover taxes levied on the production or consumption of goods.
3. Fuels, lubricants and other oils far technical use- are considered to
be products intended for consumption on board where they are intended for .- . -./
– by aircraft on board vessels engaged in international navigation* for the purposes of their mission;
- for in-flight provisioning of aircraft themselves engaged in international .air transport. • ■' < - -
. . Exemptions on importation
Member States shall not levy value added tax or excise duties in respect of the importation of stores on board: , "
1. a vessel engaged in international sea transport which enters territorial waters bound for a port situated on their territory, until the vessel arrives in that port;
2. a vessel engaged in international inland waterway transport which enters their territory :
(a) for the whole duration of the voyage, if this takes place exclusively in waters having international status;
(b) in all other cases, as far as the port of final destination - situated in the inland waters of a Member State,
3. an aircraft engaged in international air transport and bound for an air­
port situated on their territory , until the aircraft arrives at^ that
(a) these ports of call or stops are part of the normal itinerary to the final destination;
("b) no passengers or freight are em"barked at any of these ports of call or stops in order to "be disembarked at another.
However, where passengers or freight are embarked at any of these
ports cjf call to "be disembarked at another, fuel on board a means of transport in. the normal tanks shall be exempt;
3. during the entire period of stay in a port or shipyard or at an air­ port, provided that this period does not exceed the usual period necessary to achieve the purposes for which the said means of transport carries out the international transport operation which it has under­ taken .
Article 3 shall not apply to:
(a) catering supplies on board:
Member States shall exempt from value added, tax and excise duties supplies
• of stores consumed on "board a means of transport referred to in Article 2: -
1. until it reaches a destination referred to in Article 2;
2» during the journey "between ports of call or stops situated on their territory , provided that : ■
– a vessel whilst it is out of commission or whilst it is being used for purposes other than those for which it is normally engaged in international sea transport;
- a vessel used as a floating residence or a floating restaurant, hotel or casino, or for similar purposes, during the entire period of its stay in a port or in the territorial or inland waters of a Member State ; .
- a pleasure vessel during the entire period of its stay in a port or in the territorial or inland waters of a Member State where such supplies were not purchased in the country of provisioning in accordance with the general tax arrangements applicable on that country*s domestic market; r (
- a vessel belonging to the administrative services or a military vessel flying the flag of a Member State , during the entire period of its stay in a port or in the territorial or inland waters of that State ;
- a fishing vessel , save for a vessel engaged in high–sea fishing , registered in a Member State, during the entire period of its stay
in the territorial waters of that State;
- a vessel engaged in international inland waterway transport in the customs territory of the Community where such supplies were not purchased in the country of provisioning in accordance with the
general tax arrangements applicable on that country's domestic market ;.
.(b) fuels other than those contained in standard-size tanks directly connected to the propulsion units or other machinery or equipment on
board to be fed therewith . ,
Member States shall .suspend the levying of value added tax and excise duties in respect of the importation of stores on board a means of transport referred to in Article 2 at the time of its arrival at its - destination , provided that such stores are : ,.
(a) kept on board under customs or tax control;
(b) transferred, under the control and with the authorisation of the competent authorities , to other means of transport situated in the
same port or airport and intended for use in an international transport operation which confers entitlement to the exemption referred to in Articles 6 and 7»
( c ) placed under one of the arrangements provided for "in Article - 14(1 Kb ) or (c) or in Article1 16(1)(A) of Directive 77/388/EEC*. . - -
Exemption on exportation Article 6
Member States shall exempt from value added tax and excise duties the supply
of 1 . 2 .
stores loaded on board :
a vessel engaged in international sea transport ;
a vessel engaged in international inland waterway transport , with the exception of catering supplies intended for consumption in the customs territory of the Community;
3. an aircraft engaged in international air transport.
The exemption referred to in the preceding paragraph shall also be granted in respect of the supply of stores loaded on board such means of transport
during a stay or at a port of call or airport in a Member State , subject to the conditions and within the limits laid down in Article 3«
1.' Article o shall apply to the supply of stores, with the exception of catering supplies , loaded on board :
– coastal fishing vessels,
- vessels used for rescue and assistance at sea,
even if these vessels do not sail outside territorial waters.
Hovjever, catering supplies loaded on board vessels used for rescue and assistance at sea are exempt where the vessel remains at sea for more than forty-eight hours.
2. Article 6 shall not apply to the supply of stores loaded on board: (a) pleasure vessels;
(b) fishing vessels operating in fresh water;
The. exemption shall not apply to:
Stores for international trains
1. MemberStatesshallnotlevyvalueaddedtaxorexcisedutiesin respect of the importation of stores on "board international trains where the following conditions are met: , ' 1
(a) the catering supplies; '
- do not exceed the quantities normally necessary for the needs of the persons carried during the journey to and from their destination;- -
- have "been purchased in the country of provisioning in accordance withthegeneraltaxarrangementsapplicableonthatcountry's .
(b)zthe fuels are contained in standard-size tanks directly connected to the plant to he fed therewith.
(a) alcoholic "beverages and other products containing alcohol, with the exceptionof"beer, stillwineandsparklingwine;
(b) tobacco and tobacco products. '
3. Storesonboardinternationaltrainsatthetimeoftheirarrivalat the station of destination may: -
– be kept on board under customs or tax control, or .
- be transferred, under the supervision and with the authorization of the competent authorities, to other international trains at the same station. „
4. Withoutprejudicetoparagraph3,wherestoresareintendedfor consump+ion within the customs territory of the Community, only products purchased in accordance with the general tax arrangements applicable on the domestic market of the country of provisioning may be loaded on board
international trains which are ready for departure.
Member States shall adopt the laws, regulations or administrative provisions necessary to prevent fraud and abuse.
To this end, Member States may:
1. by way of derogation from Articles 3 and 8
- place under seal any stores in excess of those necessary for the proper operation of the means of transport and for the normal needs of crew members and passengers;
2. by way of derogation from Article 6
– refuse to authorise the loading of exempt stores where the conditions of a journey to be carried out by the means of transport do not justify consumption thereof;
- determine the quantities of stores to be embarked and refuse to authorise the loading of stores in excess of those needed for the international journey in question , taking into account :
(a) the means of transport and the nature and estimated duration of the journey;
(b) the number of crew members and passengers;
(c) the quantity of stores already on board the means of transport.
The provisions of this Directive shall not prevent the applications
more restrictive measures in force in Member States under agreements to ensure reciprocity of treatment;
special measures laid down in respect of foreign armed, forces
stationed on Member States* territory in pursuance of international \.•
special agreements already concluded by Member States authorizing aircraft of non-member countries or other Member States to operate freight or passenger services between two points in their territory;
convention already concluded between a Member State and a non-member country or an international organization and containing provisions not consistent with this Directive.
Final provisions
1 . Member States shall bring into force the provisions necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 1 January 1981, and shall inform the Commission thereof. 'However, Member States which have availed themselves
of the options referred to in Article 28 of Directive 77/338/EEC may retain the national provisions falling within the scope of this Directive until 1 January 1983*
2. MemberStatesshallcommunicatetotheCommissionthetextsofthe main provisions of national law which they subsequently adopt in the field governed by this Directive.
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
The President.
