Exportations intra-CEE
Source î response to the GATT Textiles Questionnaire and EUROSTAT.
1 ) Only enterprises of 20 or more employees included . 2 ) Subject to slight revision .
 ARBEITNEHMER in 1.000
Brussels' 8th July 1981 FOR OFFICIA L USE ONLY
( Communication from Mr Davignon and Mr Naries )
- This document is on the agenda for the 613th meeting of the Commission/ on Wednesday 15th July 1981 .
To : Members of the Commission Mr Braun
Cabinet Thursday 9th July 1981
In conjunction with its communication to the Council on the renewal of the M.F.A. the Commission considers it necessary to carry out a profound examination of the situation and prospects of the Community textile and clothing industries in order to define an industrial policy approach
and the future directions inherent in such an approach.
The industrial situation in textiles and clothing is characterized by falling employment, a slowing down in consumption, stagnant production, a growing trade deficit, inadequate profitability and a weak competitive position , linked to a generally unfavourable economic climate .
The information on and the prospects for future trends show that, as well as the handicaps such as inadequate market knowledge, financial problems concerning investment and the insufficient utilization of equipment, there are strong points which must be capitalized on if the industry is to keep its place in the Community economy; notably its creative tradition, the size of the Community market and the existence of a complete textile chain .
The contribution made by the textile and clothing industries to the EEC economy remains substantial, above all in terms of employment and value added. It is for this reason that the Commission believes that the industries must keep a place , and an important one , in the EEC economy .
 To this end the Commission proposes a certain number of directions and objectives for the future : the maintenance of all the essential production processes, the development of exports so as to be able to maintain textile and clothing activity at its present value, and in­ dicates the means by which they may be reached : the working out of
planning strategies at company level, the development of flexibility of production , the unification of the interior market , a coherent policy on public aid , the promotion of technology and information , the encouragement of investment;, the improvement of information, the reinforcement of industrial cooperation by the use of outward proces­ sing and the reinforcement of the Social and Regional Funds.
Commission Communication to the Council on the situation and prospects of the Community textile and clothing industry
1 July 1981
2. The need for adjustment in textiles and clothing 3. The scope and direction of public policy
1. Situation of t^he industry : details and prospects
1.1 The macro-economic environment
1.2 General features of the textile / clothing sector
1.3 Specific features of the textile sub-sectors
1.5 The market
1.6 Development of trade in textiles and clothing
3. Handicaps and strong points of the textile and clothing industry 3.1 Handicaps 23 3.2 Strong points 27
1..The position of the textile and clothing industries- in the : 29 . Community economy
2. The position of the industries competing with that of the EEC 19
The Community market and competition
2.1 Attainment of the Internal Market 2.2 Competition and public aids
3.2 Utilization of plant and equipment 38 3.3 Cooperation 40 3.4 Information 42 3.5 Research and technological innovation 44
External aspects 46 4.1 Relations with the industrialized countries 46 4.2 Imports from developing countries 46 4.3 Exports 48 4.4 . Generalized preferences 49 4.5 Outward processing 50 Employment and social and regional aspects 52 5.1 The employment situation 52 5.2 Social aspects 53 5.3 Régional aspects 56
I Artificial and synthetic fibres
V Clothing
VI Finishing
VII Structural developments in textiles and clothing
VIII EEC indices of production , consumption , employment
and external trade
IX Age and replacement of plant and equipment in the
X Trade balance in texti les / clothing-1979
XI Intra-Community trade : imports
XIa Imports within the Community ( indices ) XII Exports within the Community
Xlla Exports within the Community ( indices )
XIII Imports from outside the Community
XIV Exports out of the Community
XV Imports according to stages of processing
1.1. This Communication sets out the Commission's view as" to the situation and prospects of the European textile and clothing industry in the
domestic and international economic context, and the Commission's sug­ gestions as to the appropriate lines of public policy - in the Commu­ nity and in the Member States - in the future.
The Commission considers that a reappraisal of policies relating to the textile and clothing industries together with improved coordination of national and Community policies is necessary. The forthcoming renego­
tiation of the MFA and the proposals on outward processing and on pre- *
ferential countries mean that this has to be done now.
Trade policy has been a key policy instrument over the past twenty years, seeking to mitigate the worst effects, of shifting comparative advantage while industry adjusts to new trade patterns. A renegotia^ ted MFA will govern trade with less developed countries of widely varying degrees of industrialisation but will not, of itself, reduce the pressure for adjustment arising from changes in the structure of the' domestic economy and from imports from industrialised countries.
Clearly, therefore, the pressures for change in the textile and clothing industry, both internally and externally generated, will con­ tinue and, in some cases, intensify.
It is also the expressed view of the Council, the European Parliament,
the Economic and Social Committee, and the social partners that the ' different policy elements currently under discussion require an . -
analysis of past industrial developments, regarding the industry's ability to adjust to changing markets and economic-conditions and to compete internationally, as well as a general textile policy framework.
 1.2. The general approach is based on three broad principles :
- The ultimate aim of Community and national policy must be to ensure
that the adjustment essential to the long-term future of the textile and clothing industry is carried out effectively and without delay.
Thus, one of the important objectives of policies in the textile industry is to reduce the structural disparities which exist between
the textile industry and other sectors of the economy, and between the textile industry in different Member States.
- A range of macro-economic and industrial policies are of relevance to the textile industry .
Thus, the Commission's approach is to see how best to apply existing general industrial policy measures , rather
than to attempt to conceive a self-contained sectoral policy.
- These policies have to be conceived and implemented in a coherent manner because the different elements affecting textiles are interde­
pendent. All necessary steps are to be taken to avoid effects .
Thus, the impact of such policies cannot be considered
because possible disparities or contradictions between
both to undermine the Common market and give rise to defensive poli­ cies which compromise other capacity of industry to adapt.
The need for adiustment in textiles and clothing .
2.1 . The problems of the textile and clothing industry in the European Community have been the cause of continuing concern to the authorities and the general public .
in isolation , them threaten
The industry, which pioneered the industrial revolution and continues to form an important part of the Community economy, has on the one hand suffered from general economic difficulties which are common to European industry as such, like e.g. :
- reduced economic growth
- increase of third country competition, both from industrialized and »
- profound changes in the relative cost of factors of production, such,
as labour , capital and energy
- major changes in the structure of demand, both in quantity and
quality *
- introduction of new techniques and technologies.
Secondly , a long term need for adjustment modernisation within textiles and clothing has been brought about by the age and the location of the industry combined with additional sector-specific difficulties. *
To date, the industry has had only partial success in implementing
the structural adjustment required by changing market conditions:
In the current recession, the adverse social and regional impacts of profound changes in the textile and clothing sector are apparent and undoubtedly in many cases such considerations have prevented or hin­ dered the realisation of thorough restructuring programmes.
Unemployment , social and regional difficulties are " symptoms of these challenges, which necessitate faster shifts towards new products and production systems and in more general terms towards increased efforts to restructure and adapt .
2.3. The pressure for adjustment currently felt by the textile and clothing industry is unlikely to abate in the future, and Community industry will need to capitalise on its technological/ organisational, marketing and human strengths in order to assure its future, because it is the vitality of the firms themselves and their own industrial drive which are the prime movers of adjustment and adaptation.
 3. The scope and direction of public policy.
3.1 . To ensure that the adjustment essential to safeguard the future of the industry'is carried out effectively, and given the intensive com­ petition, uncertain demand prospects and the fact that there has been a shift in comparative advantage away from the Community, there is
a clear need for more coherent public policies.
It is also more than ever necessary to coordinate ideas and to put forward proposals and recommendations to improve the ability of the European textile and clothing industry to restructure and adapt .
3.2. Macro economic policies are used to encourage adjustment, but in recent years they have been insufficient to achieve an acceptable situation in the textile industry which is why horizontal industrial policies have to be adapted and applied to accelerate the process of adjustment in each branch of the industry. However, the textile and clothing industry is very heterogeneous and growing differences can be observed between the various subsectors concerning their structural characteris­ tics and specific problems, and, furthermore, because the regions of the Community differ significantly in structure, the general economic and industrial policies to be applied when attacking the problems of the industry have to be adapted according to the specific needs of
the sector concerned.
3.3. Given the relatively bleak economic outlook and the continuing crisis in the sector, all Member States have been led, to a greater or lesser
degree, to intervene in the operation of the industry.
The interdependence of such policies, concerning competition, employ­ ment, research, trade, internal market, industrial structure, pollution and environment, social and regional development, cannot be ignored. Any specific measure or regulation in one of the above fields has a bearing on others.
 For example, external protection raises doubts'about the justification of aid , while intra-Communi ty trade barriers distort competition , hinder industrial restructuring and have a tendency to increase national aid levels. There is a real danger that an escalation of
the level and extent of state aids will create lasting distortion^
of competition within the Community and blunt the stimulus for adjust­ ment .
Thus, there is a clear need for the Community to develop a common economic policy framework, including the way in which' the different horizontal policies will be adapted to specific sectors, and pointing to ways in which current policies can be used and/or modified so as . to restoring it to competitivity and profitability. ^
3.4. Elements of such a policy approach are :
- the abolition of intra-Community trade barriers, the removal of any
distortions of competition and the safeguarding of the proper and
smooth functioning of the Common market ,
- the creation of an economic climate favourable to dynamic and offen­
sive industrial strategies and, in particular , to investment , inclu­
ding improved profitability prospects of investment,
- the harmonisation of aid policies ,
- the encouragement and support of industry's efforts in the fields
of technology and innovation
- effective employment , regional and social policies ,
which on the one hand guarantee a longterm future of those remaining in the industry and ensure the competitivity of the EC-industry and on the other hand assist the redeployment of workers leaving the sector and the redevelopment of areas where the industry has contrac­ ted . -
3.5. In view of the different responsibilities, it is the task of
- industry to intensify its autonomous efforts to restructure and to
improve its international competitiveness ,
 - nat|onal_ggvernments to exhaust alt possibilities of fiscal, social and regional policy, to encourage and support research and develop­ ment, and to improve the flow and availability of economic and com­ mercial information,
- the Community to coordinate and to develop a common future oriented industrial strategy because there is a strong need for making national policies with regard to textiles and clothing more coherent
* than was the case so far.
In order to embark on such an approach, it is necessary to define overall policy objectives, referring to the future role of the textile and clothing industry in, and its contribution to, the Community economy, including such questions as to whether all stages of produc­ tion are to be present in the Community and which level of activity for the industry as a whole the Community feels to be indispensable to its general economic and industrial balance.
1 . Situation of the industry : details and prospects .
The macro-economic environment . * '
In order to understand the climate in which the textile and clothing industry will have to adapt its structure- a few brief comments should first be made about the general economic situation :
- During the 1970s, Member States were increasingly, affected by major cycli­ cal trends partly due to their increased commercial interdependence and partly to their joint response to external "shocks".
- The recession which followed the slight "downturn in activity between
1970-1972 and the major boom between the end of 1972 and mid 1974 has been the worst since the 1930s. It has uncovered a whole series of structural
weaknesses in many sectors of European industry which hitherto had remained hidden thanks to an unprecendented period of stable growth. The short- lived upturn in 1976 was followed in 1977 by almost total stagnation and then in 1978 by more sustained rates of growth; then in 1979 the adverse effects of the new oil crisis began to make themselves felt.
-* At the end of the 1970s, overall employment in the Community was below the level for 1973 even though the workforce had increased. This meant a considerable rise in unemployment. The structure of employment continued to change, with agricultural workers tending to move to industry and the services sector. However, it became increasingly difficult to accomodate them .
- Since the beginning of the 1974 crisis, regional disparities in the pattern of unemployment have intensified . ,
- During the 1970s, the growth in hourly.output and the growth in ouput per employee fell, partly because of the reduction in the average working week.
 Changes in consumer life-styles and habits have profoundly affected house­ hold spending patterns in that a growing proportion of personal revenue is being spent on consumer durables or on leisure rather than on essentials such as clothing or food. Despite this trend, private demand has continued to be the main source of growth although signs of saturation have appeared on several markets .
The demand for exports has been the other factor contributing to the
growth of the Economic European Community; intra-Community trade has grown slightly faster than trade with third countries. After two decades of ever- increasing liberalization of trade, recent years have seen the emergence
of more protectionist attitudes around the world.
During the 1970s, the Community experienced growing difficulties in main­ taining competitivity with the United States and Japan as regards both imports and exports ; over the same period , competition from the newly- industrialized countries became intense .
Since the beginning of the 1970s, investment has fallen; the aim of economic policies from 1975 onwards has been to stimulate private and public ' invest­ ment and this has had a significant impact at sector level.
The rate of inflation also gathered momentum in the 1970s,with the result that prices also increased; this was caused by the rise in the price of oil and raw materials and by the instability of exchange rates.
Certain economic factors which contribute to positive or negative develop­
ments in the Community have assumed greater importance than in the past,
0 Europe's dependence on external energy resources and other natural resources
0 the decisive role of international trade accompanied by much tougher international competition .
The repercussions of fluctuating exchange rates and price increases.
 1.2 . General fe atures of the texti le / d lothing sector .
The activity of the textile and clothing industries covers the whole range of processes in which natural or chemical fibres are used to manufacture finished products , garments and articles for domestic or industrial use .
The following figures for 1979 show that these industries continue to occupy an important position in the industrial life of the Community :
- they employ more than 2.400.000 people, i.e. 9.6 % of.the workforce of the
- they account for 6.4 X of the added value in respect of these industries; - they account for 6 % of Community exports of manufactured products.
The characteristic features of the textile and clothing industry are :
- many interdependent processing stages;
- highly-diversified product ranges and market outlets;
- a large number of individual firms, the majority of which are small and medium-
sized undertakings, particularly in the clothing sector.
Whereas these features do not differ fundamentally from one member country to another, there are important differences in their structure;there are basically
three types of firm which predominate in a given region of the Community, i.e. : i
- firms with a highly-decentralized structre, very specialized in product terms but with highly effective coordination in marketing and sales;
- the predominantly large, highly-integrated firms;
- firms which concentrate on specific stages of production where advanced
production techniques are used and where the production cycle is completed by the judicions use of sub-contractors outside the Community (outward processing )
In considering the textile and clothing sector as a whole, attention should be drawn to the characteristics of particular sub-sectors which generate specific trends and problems and which consequently require different types of solution.
Although this industry employs only 100.000 people, it supplies some 50 % of fibres for the industries of the Community. It therefore plays a key role at the start of the textile production chain. It is highly integrated (thirteen companies account for 90 % of Community output) and oligopolistic; with an investment per operator of appriximately 200.000 EUA it is - like the chemical and modern textiles spinning industries - among the highly capital - intensive industries .
There continues to be a surplus of Community production in relation to consumption. But exports are encoutering ever-greater competition, especially from outside western Europe and are tending to fall. Imports, coming mainly from the industrialized countries, have returned to a stable level since the beginning
of 1981 and the massive imports from the United States in 1979 and 1980 appear to have ceased on account of the strengthening of the dollar, the increase in the price of chemical products following the deregulation of oil prices
and the anti-dumping measures introduced by the Community.
Since 1975, this industry has been facing a severe problem of overcapacity in most of the main fibre types due to the fact that the implementation
of the ambitious investment programmes decided prior to the 1973-74 crisis continued at least until 1977 .
In recent years, firms have taken joint action to reduce capacity with a view to eliminating surpluses. With current prospects as they are, there is too much remaining capacity for firms to hope to operate, in the medium term,
on an economically satisfactory basis .
 Ihe_T_nTjt2al_sta2es_of_grocessTjng_2._sgTinnTing_and_weaving_(Annexes_II_and_III ) .
- From a structural point of view,, the feature common to these stage of production is that they are highly capital-intensive. The investment costs needed for the latest plant and equipment - as high as 150,000 EUA per. operator - are . well above the average level for manufacturing industries as a
whole. Modern machines labour component of the
have a higher output capacity, as a result of. which the costs is reduced.
Not all firms, however^,
average age of plant and equipment in this' sector is still quite high
have reached this lavel of modernization. The
(annex IX). Seen as a whole, therefore, labour continues to be a significant component of the added value and the workforce still accounts for 2^5 % of the total value added in the textiLe and clothrg sector . Nevertheless , the situation is changing rapidly and a number of industries in the Community have stepped up the rate at which they are replacing their plant and equipment.
By way of comparison, the rate of replacement in the EEC has been two to three times more rapid than in the United States.
In considering these two stages of production one must not overlook the traditional distinction between the wool and cotton industries which - despite their growing use of chemical fibres - still differ in their specific technologies, product types and market outlets.
Whereas in the Community wool products have retained a significant propor­ tion of the demand for textile products, demand in third countries is weighted towards cotton type products.
It follows from this that on a worldscale the cotton processing system
 The Community market in cotton products is therefore subject to much greater pressure from imports than is the case for wool products, and
cotton system products are more affected than those produced on the wool system .
- Apart from the weaving processes geared to clothing manufacturers, there
is a much smaller sector, i.e. industrial or furnishing fabrics, where the situation is more favourable; this can be explained by the fact that deve­ loping countries have few or no outlets in their own markets for these types of product and also that the Community industry has advantages accruing
from its know-how, specialization and innovative capacity.
ll-Itli-íiQishing trade_(see Annex_VI)i
This sector is concerned with finishing operations , i.e. : bleaching , dyeing
of yarn of fabrics, printing and coating which require heavy and cumbersome plant (particularly for drying) and often highly complex and specific technolo­ gy (printing). This sector is therefore highly capital-intensive but has a very diversified structure in that it numbers 1.800 firms with a total work­ force of about 150.000 .
In view of the processes involved, this sector has to cope with two major problems, firstly, the cost of energy and secondly the investment and operating costs in respect of pollution-control facilities .
Economically speaking, its activity is closely dependent on that of the Community textile industry, in particular the spinning and weaving stages of production. But it may also handle the processing of products manufactured outside the Community and it may be in the interests of the finishing trade that there are minimum restrictions on imports of greycloth.
 ) The clothing_industries_(see_annexes IV and_V).
Two quite separate areas of technology are involved in the manufacture of clothing : '
- garment-making (cutting and sewing of fabrics or cloth)
- hosiery and knitwear
from which two largely independent industries have developed.
Although the hosiery sector manufactures a number of articles which meet the same needs as articles from the garment sector/ it specializes in the manufacture of articles for which its manufacturing techniques are particu­ larly well suited/ such as underwear/ pullovers/ socks and stockings.
The garment making and hosiery industries are essentially laboyr-intensive; capital investment is low/ i.e. less than 10.000 EUA per operator. Together these industries employ some 1.500.000 people (nearly 3/4 of whom in the ready- to - wear sector ). '
A characteristic feature of the structure of these industries is the large number of small and medium-sized firms. A number of factors may explain
this phenomenon : only a modest amount of capital is required for investment when a firm is set up or modernized. Since the industry is labour-intensive/ economies of scale are insignificant and even small-scale units may be
highly competitive in terms of output. Furthermore/ the diversity of demand is such that there is room in the market for small-scale producti.on.
These industries have become highly organised in the developing countries where the ratio of wage costs' to productivity is very favourable. Imports of these products have therefore taken a growing share of the EEC market and placed large sections of the Community industry in difficulty.
 Yet the situation of firms in relation to extra-Community competition
is very diverse. Those companies which are specialized in the manufacture of articles to meet the so-called "discretionary" demand, i.e. articles where creativity in design is more important than the strictly functional aspect and where the developing countries have far less outlets on their own markets , may find themselves in a much more favourable situation .
In an economy such as that of the Community this discretionary demand - which now accounts for half of the demand for clothing - should continue to increase with rising living standards and thus offer good prospects
to firms geared to meet this demand.
For other firms manufacturing less sophisticated articles which have neverthe­ less managed to stay in business there is no certainty that the present situation will last. It may be that they will have to evolve toward the introduction of new technologies allowing them to reduce the labour compo­
nent in the total costs of production and to concentrate their activity
at the top end of the market (which would necessarily result in a reduction of business activity).
Since the textile special attention since 1973 and to
and clothing industries are major employers of labour, must be paid to the changing pattern of employment
the present situation ( see Annex VII ).
Whereas in 1973 there were more than 3. 1 million people employed in these industries, by 1980 the firue had dropped to 2.3 million, a loss of about 27 %; taken annually, this represents an average loss of 115.000 jobs.
 This Loss of jobs is mainly the result of the stagnation - even drop - in Community production (Annex X)/ coupled with the increase in productivity. Increased productivity itself is the result af both a reduction in manpower/ owing to
the disappearance of firms which are too weak and of the necessary rationaliza­
tion measures. However, the relative importance of each of these causes
and the direct or indirect influence of the penetration of imports cannot be determined because there are no exact statistics.
It may be roughly estimated that, when productivity goes up by 1 %, 10.000 jobs a year are lost in the textile sector and 15.000 in the clothing industry.
Thus, over five years, increased productivity of, say 3 % a year at a constant production level will lead to an overall loss of some 375.000 jobs.
The social problems resulting from this reduction are felt particularly badly :
- by women workers (up to 80 X of all workers in the ready-to-wear sector);
- at regional level, since these industries are concentrated in specific regions,
some of which are among the least favoured in the Community. )•
If development prospects hold out no hope of a recovery or at least a 'stabilization in the employment situation, the solution to the resulting social problems must among other things be sought in conversion possibilities.
The expansion of the Community market . for textile and clothing products has slowed down considerably since 1973,: s
- annual growth has fallen to 1.1 - 1.2 X from its pre-1975 figure of 3 - 5 %; - the share of household expenditure accounted for by clothing - the most
important item in the consumption of textile products - has steadily dropped from 8 Z in 1970,to around 6.5 X in 1978. The elasticity in expenditure on clothing, compared with total household expenditure, has fallen to around 0.4 since 1973 (compared with the previous 0.7 or so).
 Forecasts indicate an annual increase of approximately 1 % in the consumption of textiles and clothing during the eighties in the European Community.
The worldwide increase is estimated at 2.5 % p. a .
However, the present consumption level of textile fibres is :
- 23 kg per head in the United States - 16 kg per head in the EEC
which suggests that there is a potential market growth in the Community and a very important potential growth in the world as a whole.
The difference in consumption between Europe and the USA is due partly to a difference in patterns of consumption (quantitatively textile and clothing occupy a more important position in the American model ) -and partly (a fact which is at least as important) to the continuing difference in purchasing power , despite the higher wage costs in Europe .
li§i_2£ve logment_of_t rade_in__texti les_and_c lotMnQi 1.6.1 . Intra-Community trade .
Examination of the trend in intra-Community trade in textiles and clothing in recent years (1974-1979)-see Annexes XI and XII - leads to a number of conclusions :
- the high volume of intra-Community trade in textiles and clothing; this reached 2.129.000 tonnes in 1974, exceeding imports from outside the Community by 67 %, and 2.697.000 tonnes in 1979, a level 31 % higher than imports from outside the Community. Intra-Community trade in clothing is distinctly lower - 267.000 tonnes in 1979 - less than imports from outside the Community that same year; the proportion of trade accounted for by textiles is thus clearly predominant.
 The extent of intra-Community trade in chemical fibres is even more marked at almost triple the figure for imports from outside the Community .
- The increase in this trade in textiles and clothing between 1974 and 1979 was an overall 25 %, less than half the increase in imports from outside the EEC/ which amounted to 62 X during the same period.
, - Trade between the United Kingdom and, in certain cases, Denmark and Ireland (Tables XI and XII) and the rest of the EEC has increased more
rapidly than for the other Member States since 1974, the date when these countries joined the Community . >
- There have been a number of sometimes contradictory trends within the Community market iself (Annexes XI and XII). Exports of clothes
from Italy to other Community countries, which were already the highest
in 1974, rose from a base of 100 in 1974 to an index of 172 in 1979,
/ whereas the index figure for the Community as a whole was no more than 124. On the other hand, the figures for France, the Netherlands and the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union dropped over this period.
The amount and the growth of intra-Community trade suggests that there
is a common market in textiles and clothing; this is backed up by the
fact that the trend in the intra-Community textile and clothing trade
is broadly comparable to the trend in intra-Community trade in other industrial products. However, there is the question of whether the
textile and clothing sector, by its very nature less prone to technical barriers, is not subject to more administrative barriers than other sectors.
1.6.2 . " Trade with third countries .
The Community's trade balance with third countries in the whole of the textiles and clothing sector has developed as follows in recent years :
 Balance with non-Community countries ( '000 T. )
of which :
The Community's foreign trade balance (Annex X) has been negative since the sixties in the clothing sector, since 1975 for textiles and clothing as a whole and since 1979 for textiles alone.
The deficit is increasing every year. Between 1973 and 1980, the percen­ tage of imports on the internal market increased from 21 to 44 % in terms of volume; this is the gross rate of penetration, i.e. the proportion of apparent consumption accounted for by imports. The net rate of penetra­ tion, i.e. the ratio between the foreign trade balance and apparent con­ sumption is around 20 %.
non-Community countries .
Rate of penetration on the EEC-market by
i mpo rt s from 1973 1974 1975
The Community has always had a positive trade balance with the industrialized world in the textile and clothing sector; however, this trade balance has dropped steadily and appreciably from year to year and has become negative with the USA ( since 1979 ) and with Japan ( since 1980 ), especially in the textile sector itself (Annex XV).
The deficit in the trade balance with the United States results from the marked increase between 1978 and 1979 in imports of textile products
(synthetic yarn, fabric and tufted carpets into the United Kingdom) and, to a lesser extent , items of clothing ( including T-shirts and pullovers ). The reason for the deficit in the case of Japan is the increased imports of textile products, especially yarns.
Textile production has a fairly marked cyclical character (1973, 1976 and
1979 were years of high production) which makes it difficult to identify any «
trend in recent years. However, examination of the production indices since 1973 (Annex VIII) indicates that the production of the whole of the textile sector has at best stagnated in the past seven years. During 1980 there was a reduction. The stagnation in Community production is readily explained by the feeble increase in final demand and the increasing share of imports at all stages of textile production .
It should be underlined that textile firms in the initial stages of production
- (spinning, weaving and, further upstream, chemical fibres), suffer both directly
and indirectly from imports of textiles and clothing :
- they lose that part of the Community market in their own products taken by
- their market for final end-use products is also restricted as a result of
imports of comparable products . _
In view of the poor prospects of any increase in final demand, the development of textile activities in future years will mainly depend on the trend in imports and, perhaps, in the opportunities for increasing exports.
2. The position of industries competing with the EEC
In terms of penetration of their own market, job losses and penetration of foreign markets, large sections of the EEC industry appear to be performing less efficiently than their competitors in both developing and industrialized countries . An . analysis of the situation in these countries should make it easier to understand this state of affairs.
 The developma countMes
In terms of value, imports from the developing nations amount to 40% of textile imports and 65% of clothing imports from outside the Community.
The developing countries find it relatively easy to enter the textile and clothing sector and several factors prompt them to do so : they often produce the raw materials, their labour costs are low and their own requirements already provide them with a market ; furthermore , the production techniques
do not always demand very highly-qualified staff or special conditions as regards geographical situation; in the case of clothing, it should also be added that the investment required is small.
As a result , a whole series of developing countries in Asia , South America , and Africa are rushing to take over from the newly-industrialized countries as the producers with the cheapest products and the highest labour-intensity.
The developing countries compete mainly in the clothing sector; their advan­ tage as regards wage costs is obvious and is often reinforced by working and social conditions which have nothing in common with those prevailing in the industrialized countries . Furthermore , some firms in the industrializing countries are now purchasing equipment similar to that found in the Community so that the differences in wage costs and productivity no longer cancel each other out .
The question of better access for products from the Community's industry
arises mainly in the case of those countries which are becoming industrialized and which have a substantial market (either for local end use or for processing).
However, apart from a very small number of exceptions, these countries have a market which is practically closed to imports, particularly as a result of prohibitive import duties . If conditions of access were comparable , the Community industry would certainly be competitive on these markets as regards a number of products in respect of which the industrialized and developing countries complement each other .
 2.2 The.industrialized_countries
In terms of value, imports from these countries account for 40% of textile imports from outside the EEC compared with only 15% in the clothing sector.
As regards competition to the European industry, comparisons should be drawn primarily with the USA.
Firms in the USA have the following advantages, :
- a more favourable wage costs productivity ratio;
- greater social flexibility in the organization of working time, permitting
optimum utilization of equipment;
- a larger and much more homogenous internal market which can be catered for
by mass production; this also applies to the intermediate products - yarns
and fabrics - as well as to clothing;
- a better financial situation enabling them to make less'use of the capital
market and thus cut down on financing costs;
- cheaper supply of raw materials and energy, although the recent abolition
of oil price regulation has considerably reduced this advantage.
The United States is less exposed to competition than the Community. It applies higher customs duties and, in particular, has only a limited number of large suppliers, making it easier to regulate imports (the Community has a very large number of suppliers under various agreements : MFA, preferential, ACP, Eastern- bloc countries ).
Total imports of textiles and clothing from low-price countries were as follows in 1979 (2 miIlion) :
EEC 10,344 (of USA 5,151 (of Japan 1,732 (of
which MFA : 6,442) which MFA : 3,944) which MFA : 1,329)
The difference between the Community and the United States lies mainly in imports of textiles rather than those of clothing.
 Their imports of textiles from Low-price countries amount to only t 180 million compared with the Community figure of 2 4,077 million for a much smaller market In terms of penetration , total imports ( in tonnes ) accounted for 41% of total consumption in the Community in 1979 compared with 12% in the United States.
Japan is another important case for comparison. Its industries have the following advantages :
- like firms in the USA, a better wage/productivity ratio than in the EEC;
- a market which is expanding more quickly than the EEC market, specifically
because of the Japanese taste for traditional clothes (even if this feature
is tending to disappear );
- State aids for restructuring measures .
They have a more integrated structure and are larger in scale than EEC industri In their strategy, they are far more likely than the Europeans to steer their development towards sub-contracting in the neighbouring countries of South-East Asia where labour is much cheaper .
The Japanese distribution system is extremely complicated and plays a conside­ rable role in the establishment of prices. As a result, the producers have
stepped up their links with this sector, sometimes even integrating themselves in distribution in order to reach their market under better conditions.
However, this complication makes it difficult for foreign producers to gain access to the Japanese market .
Imports from State-trading countries account for 8% of the value of Community textile imports and 12% of clothing .
In view of their specific economic system , it is difficult , if not impossible , to draw conclusions from trade trends on the competitiveness of the State- trading countries compared with Community industry .
 Their export prices are basically "political" prices which are not necessarily linked with the cost of production. Analysis of trade with these countries
shows that the Community usually exports semi-finished products (part of the trade is based on outward processing ) and imports finished products .
As a result, the Community's overall trade balance with the countries of Eastern Europe is slightly positive in terms of tonnage, but negative in terms of value (- 170 million EUA).
Analysis of trade with China, on the other hand, shows a substantial and rapid increase in imports from thiscountry without any increase in exports of Community products, as China buys only very small quantities of man-made fibres from the Community. It should be noted that the State-trading countries of Eastern Europe are strong competitors of the Community as regards flax products and that they have a vast potential for increasing exports.
3. Handicaps and strong points of the Community's textile and clothing industry 3.1 Hand i c aps
The Community's textile and clothing industries are confronted with difficulties of varying importance in the modernization effort which they are undertaking
to maintain and improve their position.
Imge rf ect_knowJ.edge_of_econonn c_cond_i t ions
Firms, especially small and medium-sized business,-do not always have the necessary knowledge of the economic environment in which they conduct their activities. This inadequate information hinders them
when they assess their opportunities for maintaining their position
or expanding in. a specific section of the market and, accordingly, in selecting their medium-term strategy (type and volume of invest­ ment, staff policy).
Ignorance of the current Community market also makes their short-term management more difficult as they cannot immediately assess their current position. This may also discourage them from trying to expand their outlets , which are often restricted geographically , to the whole of the Community market .
Efficient management is essential to a firm's success and a key factor in increasing a firm 's internal and external dynamism and , consequently , its international competitiveness. Although the competence of the senior management of many firms in the Community textile and clothing industry cannot be called into question, a large number of firms suffer from the lack of innovatory , forward-looking management .
As a traditional industry, often run by a family, the textile and clothing industry is often typified by conservative methods which fail
to make full use of the management methods developed in other industries. This is aggravated by the difficulties which the textile and clothing industry finds in recruiting (and keeping) highly qualified managers.
The textile and clothing industry has been slower to adjust than other branches and is not always able to offer comparable wages ; furthermore , it does not appear as a modern sector of the future. Its attraction for the young is , therefore , very small .
Notwithstanding remarkable exceptions, strategic planning is inadequate in many firms as they all too often restrict themselves to short-term business planning which no longer satisfies current requirements.
If the problems posed by a situation dominated by price competition are to be solved, a large number of firms will have to give priority to management oriented towards marketing and distribution instead of to production methods.
Problems associ at ed _ wit h _ investment
The Community industries may also find themselves' at a competitive disadvantage compared with the industries in third countries which often benefit from favourable interest rates as part of export credit schemes when they purchase Community-made textile equipment (not counting the investment subsidies which these countries often grant to their firms). -
Conditions of operation fo r equipment
Community firms which operate in the parts of the textile sector demanding most capital are often handicapped, in comparison with their competitors ,
, Modern equipment is extremely expensive in the initial stages of proces­ sing, mainly spinning and weaving. In view of its continuing poor pro­ fitability, this sector has to use the capital market and thus accept high financing costs ; furthermore , risk investors are not very inclined to commit themselves in this sector .
'as regards the conditions for pperating their equipment.
The annual period of operation for equipment in the Community is estimated at an average 5,700 hours. This figure is lower than in a large number
of countries with a strong textile industry, irrespective of whether they are industrialized countries like the United States or Japan or industria­
lizing countries like Brazil, India and" the main textile producers of South East Asia where the figure often exceeds 7,000 hours.
 Annual production from the same type of equipment is thus Lower than in the Latter countries and the cost of capital as a proportion of the unit costs of production is higher .
Capital costs are often higher than Labour costs in modern plant, espe­ cially for spinning and weaving; there is thus an appreciable difference between the capital-related unit costs in the Community and in non- Community countries .
This affects the profitability of the Community industry and reduces the benefit of , compensati ng for high labour costs by using equipment which performs well but is expensive; it also discourages them from investing in equipment of this type .
v) Inadequate research and development activities
To face competition from low-price countries, the Community industries will have to increase productivity and specialize in products requiring a high Level of technology. They will achieve this only by means of extensive research and development activities concentrating both on materials and production methods.
However, to judge by the few outstanding innovations recorded in recent years in the textile and clothing sector, current research and development activities are obviously inadequate .
This appears to be due to the following factors :
- the profitability of textile and clothing firms is not sufficient for them to find the necessary financial resources;
- in the clothing industry, in particular, the average size of firms does not allow them to take part in any development activity which reaches a minimum level of effectiveness .
 3.2 The stronçj_goints ν
When .designing guidelines to help these industries maintain their position in
the Community 's economy - prominence should also be given to whatever strong
points they possess and could use in order to maintain or better their position
The _ Community market
The Community's textile market is second to that of the United States. It is not expanding fast but, as in the United States, there is every reason to believe that it will keep pace with the standard of living.
The existence of a vast market means that the Community's industries have several advantages :
- obvious economic advantages due to the proximity of outlets for their goods, eg. transport costs, delivery dates; '
- marketing advantages - because they know their own markets they can adjust to them faster and take immediate advantage of any changes .
Tradition of creativity
The tradition of the Community industry 's creativity , particularly in 1 clothing and the manufacture oft certain fabrics, allows it to maintain the lead in those market areas where fashion determines demand. This involves not merely a few luxury items but products in all price ranges.
However, it should be noted that companies make their biggest profits in the top ranges where the consumer is less concerned with price than with novelty .
Companies can also enlarge their market by concentrating their creativity on the satisfaction of new needs .
The enormous expansion in the last few years in the Leisure wear market is an example. In spite of the growing problem of pirated copies and the
fact that it is less and less true that the processes of design and produc­ tion necessarily go hand in hand, the creative potential is still one of the Community industry's most important assets and it must spare no effort to maintain or widen its lead .
In spite of the difficulties of certain subsectors which have suffered more than others from heavy imports, all production stages from the manufacture of synthetic fibres to that of the finished product still enjoy a viable level of activity. The fact that every link in the textile chain is repre­ sented in the Community is an advantage in that no link will become entirely dependent for supplies or outlets on a sector or activity based outside
the Community.
Furthermore this enables companies at each stage of the processing chain to specialise, in the assurance of finding downstream customers for their products .
Technologica l advantages and level of training of personnel
Whilst at the major intermediate stages ( spinning and weaving ) production may be carried out by machinery which does not require highly-qualified personnel to operate , it is nonetheless true that , given the same equipment , companies employing more qualified personnel more accustomed to production conditions (as is the case in the Community) obtain a higher output than companies where this is not the case . Besides , where better qualified operatives are available, more sophisticated and particularly more fully automated equipment can be used .
Also the Community's industries still have the lead in particular operations in the textile cycle, eg. textile finishing and the manufacture of special products such as furnishing fabrics and technical fabrics which have special characteristics. For the user the quality of this type of product is more important than the selling price, and producers could make use of their advantages in equipment and know-how .
 III . Policy guidelines for the future
1. The position of the textile and clothing industry in the Community's economy
1.1 . To ensure the industry 's competitiveness and therefore suivival , and in order to comply with international agreements of which the Community is a signatory, the textile and clothing industry must complete the reorganization of its structures , -
It is accepted that the industry must adjust to new circumstances Hit,oontraryto certain past economic theories based on the international division of
labour contrary to this does not meain that the textile and clothing sector
has to be emigrate to developing countries . The technical and economic de­ velopment of the industry has itself demolished this argument.
To transfer the industry would not be advisable in the current economic situation, not would it answer the Community's endeavours to achieve and keep a balanced industrial structure . It is clear that because of its customer
and supplier relationships with other industries the textiles and clothing industry is an essential factor in this industrial balance .
The textile and clothing industry is not only one of the Community's biggest industrial employers ; it also employs people with a training which
fits them for* few alternative jobs . This factor is all the more important
when it is realized that the industry is usually sited in places where it
is the major employer or where other industrial employers are similarly affec­ ted by the economic recession.
 Finally , taking the industry 's proportion of total Community industrial exports
to be 6%, and in spite of its "being in deficit , the textile and clothing industry makes a contribution to the Community 's trading balance and balance of payments
which we cannot afford to relinquish. Exporting textile machinery and equipment to new producer countries would provide only partial compensation, quite apart from
the fact that the manufacture of textile machinery has a natural tendency to move
to where the textiles themselves are produced. Besides, there is an imbalance between the two. The world market for textile machinery is one-tenth the size of the market for the products of the textile and clothing industry.(l).
The Commission therefore reaffirms the view it set out in the communication of 20 July 1978 (2), namely that the textile and clothing industry should continue to occupy an important place in the Community 's economy .
The Commission considers that a sustained effort should be made to maintain all the main types of production in the Community in spite of the difficulties
resulting from the comparative advantage this would give the low-cost producers, particularly in some products at the bottom of the range .
If !bs Community were to give up certain types of production then - in view of a certain tendency to specialize and the growing interdependence of certain stages of production - there would be some danger of whole industries emigrating. This can
be avoided only if the European Community maintains a signification lov.-l of activity and therefore remains in command of production technology and in control of the outlets for the products of the main stages of production of the textile
and clothing industry.
(l) The world market for textile machinery was estimated in 19°0 at
10.000 million EUA, against 85.000 million EUA for world trade in textiles and clothing.
 1.3 : Whilst there can be no question of the public authorities laying down on optimum or minimum strategy for a given industrial sector, the Community must rarertheless have a clear idea of what overall quantitative changes are likely to take place in the future and of what these changes imply .
There will "be only a slight increase in the consumption of the products of the textiles and clothing industry.
It is highly unlikely that the Community will be able to contain the growth in imports from all sources so as to prevent imports equalling or exceeding increases in consumption.
If therefore we are to maintain production at present levels , any increase in imports exceeding the consumption growth rate must be balanced by exports .
It would seem to be even more justifiable to adopt this as an objective since it is now known that even at a constant production level, improvement in pro­ duction will inevitably lead to a further substantial loss of jobs in the next few years .
1.4 The general aims proposed by the Commission for the textile and clothing industry may therefore be summarized as follows;
- a competitive textile and clothing industry continues to be important in maintaining the Community 's industrial equilibrium :
- all the industry's essential production stages continue to be represented in the Community;
- to develop exports by a joint effort within the rules of the GATT, by the industry and public authorities.
 a combined effort of the industry to ensure that production in the Community «
"textile and. clothing sector does not fall "below the level of the last
few year In view of increased productivity and the qualitative improvement of products , it would seem more appropriate to express this aim in terms of the real value of production.' rather than in terms of volume or tonnage .
There aims must he pursued within the limits imposed hy the need to avoid abrupt changes in employment and to create a framework within which companies can work out a long-term strategy .
Nevertheless , these aims can only be achieved subject to two conditions :
- companies must continue with and intensify their efforts to reorganize structurally , particularly by more flexible planning and production strategics better adapted to the needs of the market ;
- public authorities (whether) Community or national , must support these effort and create an economic environment in which the companies' measures can take effect by creating a unified domestic market , promoting investment , pursuing coherent public aids policy , promoting technology and innovation , making an effort to harmonize pollution laws , conductirg personnel training programme and eliminating barriers to the optimum use of equipment .
 ? . The Community market and competition
2.1 . Attainment_of the internal market
Effective restructuring means creating a single market of adequate size with no internal barriers .
Although the common market is less homogeneous than , for instance , the
United States market (e.g. commercial structures, varying consumer tastes)
a properly functioning common market would promote structural adjustments in internal operations as well as at the level of external competition. In view
of the volume and growth of intra–Community trade , it may he said that the basis for a common market in textiles and clothing already exists and that many barriers have already been eliminated, e.g. by harmonizing the textile nomenclature - at least as far as goods of Community origin are concerned.
However, we must be careful not to introduce new barriers and, where necessary,
the Community must take firm action . »
Barriers may persist or be re-introduced whether in a form specific to the textile and clothing industry (such as requiring certificates of origin . for goods of Community origin) or random (such as stepping-up administrative controls at intra-Community borders , a factor which has considerably interrupted the flow of trade between Member States in recent months or specific and in the form
of national laws requiring, for instance, the origin marking of products of
the textile and clothing industries .
On the latter point the Commission should take steps or put forward proposals aimed at :
- avoiding or eliminating barriers to trade within the common market at every level of the process of manufacture and distribution;
 - ensuring that one and the same system for indicating origin marking is used throughout the common market .
The internal market should not operate solely for internal Community products
but also for products from outside the Community . When considering commercial
policy the truestion should therefore "be asked whether the regional quotas are
not a contradiction of the concept of a single Community market , a concept which the ESC champions in its external dealings .
On the same point, there is a clear contradiction between a common trading policy for products of the textile and clothing industry and the provisions of Article 115 of the EEC Treaty.
Although the criteria used in applying Article 115 were given a more limiting effect in 1980 and some countries of origin thereby escaped (products imported from countries benefiting from the preferential system), Article 115 is still frequently used in the area of textiles and clothing.
But even where , in exceptional circumstances , there is a danger of misuse or interference which might justify action under Article 115» "the Community should manage to limit free movement less frequently and be stricter in applying the rules about economic grounds.
Competition and public aids
In a market economy such as that of the European Community, it is recognized that competition is the factor which most effectively encourages restructuring, and financial intervention by public authorities should therefore be kept to a
level recognized as the indispensable minimum.
 In the Community 's textile and clothing industries , State subsidies are justifiable only when they are essential for completing the adjustment and restructuring process needed in this sector, or for alleviating the more serious forms of social distress
which might result from the process of adjustment.
Generally speaking, p\iblic subsidies to companies should be:
– more transparently devised and applied so that the industry in one Member State does not consider that it is being discriminated against ascompared with the industry in another Member State ;
- more consistent so as to prevent Member States outbidding each other in subsidies and perhaps permanently distorting intra-Community competititor.. This includes the so-called rescue aids as well as operating aids.
Since 1970 the Commission has been issuing Directives on aids to the textiles sector. These are included in the limiting measures communicated to the Member States on 22 July 1971 and 4 February 1977• The aim of these limiting measures is to ensure that the aids to the sector are temporary, decrease from year to year and
are suited to their purpose, and they have already resulted in greater consistency and transparency in this field .
Although there is some danger that aids of this kind are seen not as the maximum acceptable but as a right, the Commission thinks it would be useful to set out certain aspects of Community policy in these measures , particularly in order to prepare against aids to the sector escalating and being maintained at a level higher than necessary to achieve positive adjustment .
Close cooperation between the Commission and the Member States should, in particular, result in a more specific definition of the concept of restructuring for which
the aids are to be used . This presupposes an assessment of the viability and
specific problems of the various subsectors in view of foreign competition, and deciding on priorities and excluded areas .
 In addition the Commission will make every effort to:
- define what type of operational aid may "be regarded as corapatiole with the
normal functioning of the common market in textiles and clothing. In this context the following types of aid should be mentioned: subsidies for technological innovation , energy saving and environmental protection . But at the same time existing multi-sector measures or any such measures introduced in the future
must also be taken into consideration .
- establish a system of a posteriori monitoring of sectoral and other aids , e.g. regional aids. This will enable the Commission to keep up to date on
current aids and hold regular discussions with Member States .
It should be remembered that in 1977, when faced with excess production capacity
in the synthetic fibres sector, the Commission decided to call upon the "ember State under .Article 93 (l) of "the EEC Treaty to suspend all aid likely to be used to create new capa,city. The Commission also requested the States to notify it under Article 93(3) of any general or regional aids granted so that it might have a complete view of the situation as regards aids to the industry concerned .
^or their part , in an attempt to end the crisis , the European companies agreed ir: ] 97<" to reduce capacities so that by 19OI - 0° they would be left with an economically satisfactory capacity.
The plan was carried out but, as it turned out, the market forecasts made at the time of the agreement were still too optimistic in view of the way in which the market actually developed .
 Excess capacity therefore still exists in the industry and we cannot expect
it to be absorbed in the medium term. This leads to the conclusion that there will be further reductions so that companies find it easier to specialize and. achieve optimum use of their equipment .
Clearly here further reductions or restructuring are undertaken within the framework of inter-ccmpany cooperation , they must comply with the Community 's industrial : competition policy objectives ..
The lead which the Community 's industry holds over its low-cost competitors the qualitative changes in trade within the Community, where textile
products play a prominent part , and the examples offered by the American and Japanese industries all point to the fact that the future of the Community 's undertakings could lie mainly in products which require
heavy capital investment, advance-3 technology, highly qualified workers and a large measure of creative skill.
Consequently, investment and re-equipment by the Cmmmunity's industry must he held at the current level (which,,as has already been shown, is still high)
and perhaps even be stepped up for branches such as weaving and spinning in particular. On the other hand, there are a number of obstacles stemming the flow of investments , and various factors have cast doubts as to the likely
returns. Accordingly, one of the priorities of the Community's economic and
general industrial policies should be to remove or neutralize those obstacles , notably by bringing the cost of capital down to a level compatible with a normal level of profit for industrial activity . Only then will the clothing and textiles industry recover a position where it can attract the risk- capital investments which it has lost and direct its efforts towards "pace–setting" products.
Utilisation of plant and equipment
These investments will not be made unless companies have some guarantee tnat they will be able to make optimum use of their equipment , possibly by introducing four or even five shifts per day, and thereby gain the maximum return on their investment over the eight or so years' service life of textile plant and equipment.;
 However, m some Member States factory hours are limited by law or convention.
This is not an area for Community legislation. These laws or attitudes are
part of the unique pattern of social arrangements peculiar to each individual Member State . The Commission nevertheless feels that a Community initiative is needed in order to encourage a tripartite approach to the problem (involving political authorities, trade unions and management). This could take the following form ;
– initially , an assessment of the impact 'of the proble ;
although there is no denying that these obstacles hamper only one sector
of the industry, namely companies which manufacture capital-intensive products and therefore have to invest heavily, it is nontheless an important sector , in which the future' properity of the Community 's industry lies ;
– at the same time the extent and nature of the obstacles must be defined, though the higher unit labour costs resulting from the extra shifts
should be regarded as part of the social background which each company
has to accept when planning its activities ; /
- finally, the Commission intends to make the national governments and both sides of industry more aware of the problem ajid to invite thera to
join together in seeking solutions that will permit more profitable use
of equipment without prejudice to what has already been achieved in terms
of social progress . , ,
For all that , particular attention is drawn to the need to avoid any trend toward the lowest common denominator as a result of the efforts to harmonize
capacity utilization within the Community with that of its competitors. Although some changes could be made to working patterns in the Comipunity, a greater
effort should be made to improve working conditions in the countries against
which the Community's industry has to compete. , >
 There is also a seasonal aspect to this problem. The textiles and clothing industry - and particularly the clothing sector - has to cope with marked seasonal fluctuations in demand. The Commission should use this as another argument in favour, of greater social flexibility during its talks with the national authorities and "both sides of industry .
The Textiles and clothing industry is made up largely of small and medium-sized undertakings .
This is not necessarily a disadvantage in the clothing or hosiery industries ,
at least as far as production is concerned. However, the situation is different for certain textile products where production must cross a specific
critical threshold determined by the investment made t and where marketing strategy cannot be confined to the company 's home market alone .
Although small– or medium–scale operations may be an advantage in some branches
of the industry , giving greater flexibility at the production level , they can
often work to the company's disadvantage at the marketing level, since they offer onl limited scope for prospecting new markets or for commercial investment . Greater cooperation between companies could help to bridge the gap between production capacity and commercial capacity, particularly as regards experts to non-Community countries , and public authorities should encourage initiatives and investments in this direction .
The predominance of small and medium-sized undertakings is also an important factor as regards the relationship between the production and distribution sections of
the textiles and clothing industry.
 The large share of distribution costs in the ultimate price of the product , the' increasing bargaining power of the major distributors on a buyers * market and the distributors 1 decisive influence on trade flows are all symptoms of the problem which beset relations between the distribution and production sides of the textile and clothing industry. .
The Commission feels that it would.be highly desirable for each side to obtain .
a clearer understanding of the restraints under which the other operates and for each to adapt in an effort to bring their objectives and strategies closer together.
One, important step which could be made in this direction, at either national
or Community level, would be to arrange for regular meetings between the industry, the distributors and the public authorities .
The fact that the information that is currently available on the Community's textiles and clothing industry is out-of-date and does not give a sufficiently
full picture of the market , poses problems for companies and public authorities alike .
Prom the companies's point of view, the lack of information makes it difficult to discover the right approach to the new market conditions ^ and to decide
on an effective policy and mangement plan.
For public authorities and both Community and national government level ,
the lack of comprehensive up-to-date information makes it difficult to produce an accurate , realistic analysis of the situation of the industry , to pinpoint exactly which problems have to be solved and to define exactly which political measures should be taken in a given situation.
To help meet the industries' needs, the Community has already taken the initiative of co-financing an information centre on textiles and clothing (CITE!). The primary aim of the centre is to provide the Community 's textile and clothing undertakings with detailed statistics and economic data on the Community market , e.g. information on production trends, stocks and consumption in the various branches of the industry .
The Centre is also expected to provide details of market trends in non–Community countries, which can be an extremely useful guide for Community
producers , and on developments in the textile industries in thosp countries . Eventually it must extend its work into more detailed market analysis at individual product level and into distribution networks , in order to allow companies to evoke better sales strategies more closely tailored to the market .
 Public authorities can also help companies to obtain a clearer picture
cf their own activities by following the lead of certain Member States and arranging" sectoral or regional exchanges of information on a wide variety of topics including productivity , investment and , possibly , methods of production .
Added to this , a considerable volume of information is produced by the trade associations or official public bodies in any given Member State . Although this
information is usually very accurate and detailed, it is often of extremely limited practical use , partly because of its fragmentary nature (it often concentrates on a single market or on a given region, reflecting the special interests of the'
body responsible for the study) and partly because different methods and terms of reference are employed .
For this reason it is now tine to look into ways of combining all this
information in a single homogenous system at Community level, in the form of a Community data base system to which both Community and national authorities and the companies themselves could have access .
Moreover, the joint efforts made by the Member States and the Community should be. continued and intensified in order to make the Community's statistics more • reliable , more up-to-date and more comparable .
search and ter:1 ^o gical innovation
– If the textiles .and clothing industries are to liecone more competitive vis–a–vis non–Community countries they must embark on a special research and innovation drive in order :
. to improve productivity by making innovations in their production procedure • and organization;
. to bring new products onto the market , either' using new materials or incorporating new designs , w'nereever it is a ouestion of producing
finished articles to suit the potential customers 's taste as far as possibl .-,
The industry has all the more incentive for making the technological research and creative effort demanded of it since it already holds a number of important arsets , e.g. the current level of technology , knowledge of
the way of life of its major clients and creative potential.
- However, not all undertakings are able to put sufficient funds and resources into research and development by themselves, least of all in the clothing sector .
Consequently, research in the textile cand clothing sector tends to tave the form of joint research , whether private or public , with national research being given precedence over Community work.
The main aims of the Community programme should be :
. to improve and to widen the circulation of the results obtained by the national programmes j
. to improve coordination between the various research programmes under way in the Community in order to avoid duplication and omissions
and thereby increase their effectiveness .
 number of research topics are of general interest and would warrant Community
ction provided the following conditions were satisfied : ι.
active collaboration "by the industry itself, including a contribution towards costs J
direct or potential interest for a large number of undertakings in different regions of the Community;
high probability of preferential use of the results by the Community's industry.
The Community has already completed one research programme , which concentrated on textiles alone. In order to follow up and supplement that work, the Commission
has drafted a second multi-annual research programme covering specific points concerning clothing and various major branches of the textiles industry^ Technical examination of the draft is now complete, and a political decision is pending.
Advanced technology has yet to penetrate the clothing industry, where automation
is still virtually unknown. However, one sweeping change 'ir. production methods as a result cf automation could considerably reduce the cost disadvantage under which the Community's industry operates as compared with its competitors in the developing countries .
Following an initiative by the Commission,, technological development projeta have been identified which could be or the greatest benefit to the Community's clothing industry, provided that Co:nmunity support supplies the necessary catalyst. The
Commission will ma!:e every effort to give that' support .
The Community 's attitude towards industrialized countries which supply textiles and clothing is coloured by the fact that , on the whole , those countries produce their goods and compete under similar conditions to the Community and also that the Community has an overall trade surplus with them. The main action to be taken is to combat unfair trading practices and artificial distortion of the conditions of production and / or competition . The various anti-dumping measures taken by the Community and the action on energy costs in the USA prove that a resolute approach by the Com­ munity can yield positive results .
The Multi fibre Arrangement ( MF A ) , the legal basis governing world trade in textiles , is due to expire on 31 December 1981 . The Community has said that before the present MFA expires further special arrangements will have to be envisaged for trade in textiles . In the current economic climate , it will note be possible , after 1981 , to return to a system governed by GATT rules alone .
This decision is based on the view that, given the current
state of the world textiles market, the economic situation
in the Community as a whole and the situation of the Community's textile and clothing industry in particular, it would be unacceptable from both the social and economic points of view
to abandon the current system of import quotas on low cost products .
In view of the current international situation, the Commission has put two specific proposals to the Council, one on the
informal preferential arrangements with specific countries , which are due to expire later this year, and the other on the renewal of the MFA .
The Commission has adopted a new approach to countries receiving preferential treatment, in an effort to strike a better balance between the objectives of the preferential arrangements and the aims of the Community 's textiles policy . The proposal is now before the Council .
The Commission's second proposal concerns supplier countries with low production costs ( MFA ). It contains basic guide­
lines for a renewed version of the MFA which is to serve as the legal basis for renegotiating the bilateral textiles arrange­
ments when , they expire in 1982 . '
The Commission recommends that exports from low - cost supplier countries should increase at different rates, depending on how developed the country is and on the sensitivity of the products concerned. This principle would stabilize imports from the most advanced suppliers and grant more favourable
treatment to lessdeveloped suppliers . s,
The Commission has necessarily made separate proposals for coun*-
tries that receive preferential treatment on the hand and for MFA countries on the other since the legal and political ties between these two groups and the Community are so different
that it would not be feasible to apply the same system to both . Nevertheless , this does not mean that^ the Community 's policy should not still be based on a comprehensive approach,, covering all imports from all . countries with low production costs .
In comparison with other industrialized countries the Community takes a much Larger proportion of developing countries'exports of textiles and clothing .
This not only justifies a lower growth rate for Community imports from these countries compared with other industriali­ zed countries; but also justifies the Community in seeking
great access to certain third country markets .
The trend in exports hat not run anything like parallel
to the trend in imports, having risen only marginally since 1977, and the deficit in the trade balance has increased progressively , in terms of both volume and value .
The Community will have to try and eliminate or at least reduce existing protectionist barriers to imports from the most advanced developing countries and from those countries where the internal market represents an important potential outlet for Community industry. The same applies in rela­
tion - to the state-trading countries , where a better trade balance should be sought . With the industrialized countries , which all have g reater i mport barriers than the EEC , but
whose markets are the largest outlets for Community industry (and will continue to be in the foreseeable future), the Community must be on the lookout for further obstacles - such as import surcharges on ornamented garments in the United Sates .
Finally, steps could be taken by both industry and Community and national authorities to stimulate exports . The collection and distribution of data on the q ua n t i tati ve and qualitative
d e v e I o pment o f markets outside the Community and distributive conditions in those markets would help medium- and small-sized firms in particular, since these are unable to carry out
market studies by themselves .
In accordance with its proposal to UNCTAD, the Community has maintained generalized tariff preferences since 1971, notably for finished and semi - fi ni shed industrial products from developing countries, with a view to improving access by the latter to markets in the preference-granting coun­ tries ; most of these , however , exclude textiles from prefe­ rential treatment .
The preference system is not mandatory, and a country may . always withdraw fully or in part; a similar flexibility
would apply in the case of textiles .
In respect of products covered by the Multifibre Arrangement, the Community has maintained preferences ( duty free quotas ) since 1980 for p-roducts from the countries and territories which have signed bilateral agreements or, where appro­ priate, from those which are prepared to enter into similar commitments with the Community .
For products outside the Multifibre Arrangement, preferences are granted to all those countries and territories which
normally benefit in respect of other industries.
In the search for improved access to the market of certain developing countries , including the re cent ly-H ndust r i a li zed ones in particular, the question could arise of establishing a link between the opening-up of a country's market and maintaining advantages for that country under the system of generalized preferences .
It should be remembred that , with the current system , different amounts have already been granted to the beneficiary countries depending on their development status and that the quantities imported under the present system may not exceed 13 % of total imports coming from the beneficiary countries .
Outward processing must be considered as a preferred instrument of industrial cooperation which, while helping the developing countries to industrialize, allows the Community industry
- by carrying out some of its activities in countries with low unit costs under its own control - to achieve greater competitiveness through the device of cost equalization. This
type of operation may be regarded therefore as helping to main­ tain the level of activity of the Community textile industry and to safeguard jobs .
Outward processing should also considerably encourage Commu­ nity exports of semi-finished products (notably cloth).
However, if the Community is fully to enjoy these theoretical advantages, it must overcome a number of obstacles associated primarily with internal and external differences in industrial practice and market situation .
The internal disparities derive chiefly from the considerable variations in outward processing practice in extent and even conception in the Membr States. The Federal Republic of
Germany has been using outward processing for many years to provide massive encouragement for its own industry, while
other Member States such as the United Kingdom and Italy make very little use of it, and still others, notably the Netherlands, use it not at all in an industrial policy context, but simply
The s r- ale of outward processing also varies considerably
from one product to the next. It is particularly common in
the clothing sector . In the Benelux , for instance , the out­ ward processing of suits and costumes represents 50 % of total imports and 39 % of production . In the Federal Repub li c of
,Germany the figures are only 27 % and 14 % respectively (about • the same proportion as exists for dresses), and in France
39.6 X and 5.3 /I.
 The external differences are found mainly in the developing count ri es .
The relative incidence of outward processing varies considerably
from one geographical region to the next . At the moment it is concentrated for the most part in the state-trading countries
and the Mediterranean region, although there are indications that it occurs land is likely to grow in certain Asian supplier countries .
The main objective of Community policy with regard to outward processing must therefore be to ensure gradual convergence with a view to .reestablishing some internal and external cohesion .
Internally , convergence must make it possible , by means of harmo­ nizing arrangements and ensuring transparency of operations, to eliminate the intra-Community barriers which arise directly out of. current differences regarding outward processing and thus to organize the free movement of goodson a sounder basis .
Externally, the diverse nature of the geographical regions
where outward processing operations are conducted must allow out - • ward processing to become to a greater degree than hitherto a fully-fledged instrument of commercial policy, reshaping our external trade to suit the interests of the Community industry
bet t e r , wi t hout however harming the development efforts of the supplier countries , especially minority or potential suppliers .
This objective can be fully realized only if the scheme which
is introduced allows full control of the growth of such traffic, both as to management, and as to the criteria by which access
to the outward~processing arrangements is accorded .
 5. Employment and social and regional aspects
Between 1973 and 1980 the textile and clothing industry lost more than 800,000 jobs . Nevertheless , taking account of international and domestic competition and the stagnation in demand, it is inevitable, even if imports remain at fixed levels, that the industry will continue to lose jobs for many years to come and at a similar rate to today's. Such a situation is
measures to mitigate its effects.
In the current economic situation,
to earlier experience, an economy in recession can no longer absorb the re­ dundant labour. This phenomenon is greater in regions where the industrial structure is weak and where the rate of unemployment is already very high;
new and significant job losses will have intolerable social consequences.
In addition, there is the growing problem of lay-offs and short-time working. By the end of 1980, there were approximately 140,000 workers in the textile and clothing industry thus affected. As a result, it may perhaps necessary
to apply in textiles and clothing measures similar to those the Commission put forward to combat lay-offs in the steel industry.
In the circumstances, it will be difficult to maintain the necessary
rate of adjustment without running the risk of resorting to excessive pro­ tectionism or to unacceptable levels of state aid. The instruments for con­
verting the textile industry and retraining textile workers at national C1) and Community level must therefore be strengthened, and greater use must
be made of the Regional and Social Funds.
(1) The 1971 and 1977 Community guidelines for aid to the textile industry provide notably that "aids shall be designed to make conversion possible".
inconceivable without accompanying
an annual loss of 110,000 - 120,000
and social problems , since , contrary
Interventions under the European Social Fund in favour of the textile industry can come under the heading of either regional operations or special "textile" measures. Both budget allocations may be used to finance
vocational training in the textile industry and to create new jobs outside.
In practice, the regional operations for helping the textile industry are rarely resorted to, the Fund's main contribution with regard to textile workers being drawn from the special "textile" section; appropriations
here amounted to 21.6 m u.a. in 1978 (13,500 workers assisted), 14.6 m u.a. in 1979 ( 15,000 ) and 18.9 m u.a . in 1980 ( 17,500 ). Assistance was given
both to the retraining of workers leaving the textile and clothing industry and to the further training of workers remaining in it .
So far the European Social Fund has assisted an estimated 10% of the wor- kers leaving this particular industry .
i The budget of the special textile section amounted to 13 m u.a. in 1981,
a figure which may be substantially increased by refunds from previous years. Entries for payments in respect of 1981 are of the order of 36 m u.a. The gap between the budgetary resources available and the total aid requested
has meant that Fund aid has been devoted mainly to regions of high unemploy­ ment (workers who leave their jobs) and to vocational training measures under the conversion and restructuring programmes (workers who keep their jobs).
In order to meet future demand, the resources of the Fund in this particular field will have to be increased by a factor of three or four, assuming
that the applications submitted are granted in full.
 As for the future , the Commission , when preparing its proposals for revising the Social Fund regulations and guidelines for 1982, will have to take account primarily of the following :
- Top priority should be given to retraining workers who are leaving the i ndust ry .
Clearly , many people will continue to leave the textile industry , whatever the trend in productivity and imports, and further resources from the Social Fund will have to be allocated first to measures of this kind.
How are such measures to be implemented? The answer depends on the future structure of the whole Social Fund.
The main criterion in this case is how to match the content and location of vocational training projects to future needs. The authorities responsi­
ble for industrial training in the Member states must be alerted to the need to review the structure and content of present training plans in the main textile regions as soon as possible, so that suitable arrangements for the effective use of the available Community resources can be made.
The Commission is also examining other ways of encouraging job-creation through the Social Fund and will doubtless soon put forward further pro­ posals in this field. The section of the Fund devoted to measures for young people has set an interesting precedent, for two types of aid are now possible : subsidies , on a temporary basis and within appropriate limits , for taking on new employees , and job creation ; training for woi kers who stay in the textile industry should continue to be supported by the Community in all cases where :
. the Level of training reached by the workers concerned has been significantly and substantially improved; and
. the professional specialisations and qualifications thus acquired meet a real or foreseeable need for highly-qualified employees.
The Social Fund would not be used for training needs associated with nor­ mal changes in production capacity; requirements in these circumstances
are the responsibility of the firms themselves or of the Member States concerned .
The European Regional Development Fund was set up in 1975 to help correct the main imbalances in the Community. Together with the Member States it finances productive investment in industry, crafts and services with a view to creating or maintaining jobs, and infrastructure investment which will help develop the region or zone where those imbalances occur.
From 1975 to 1980 ERDF aid (quota section) to all regions where the textile and clothing industry plays an important role (more than 10% of secondary sector jobs ) amounted to 800 mEUA .
The labour force in the textile and clothing industry is relatively immobile, and restructuring those industries is economically and socially possible for the regions in question only if new activities provide other jobs for the workers released .
By promoting the creation, development and maintenance of sound economic activities and supporting them with improved infrastructure arrangements, the Community regional policy will facilitate the necessary restructuring. The quota section of the ERDF will continue to finance those operations which meet the relevant criteria. Specific Community regional development measures, co-financed by the non-quota section and the Member States concerned, could be considered for the textile regions worst affected by the crisis and could be drawn up in parallel to the negoti£ions on the Multifibre Arrangement.
In view of the present economic situation in the Community and the world as a whole it is essential that the Community define the
objectives and instruments of its industrial policy with more precision. This definition must take full account of the need for the Community 's industry : to ensure that it is competitive world-wide .
This is certainly true of the textile and clothing industry, where there is a very obvious need for restructuring because of the pressures of competition on the industry and the social and regional problems
created by ths large scale loss of employment in the industry.
The fact that the Community has to take decisions regarding the renegotiation of the MFA, trade with preferential countries and out­ ward processing arrangements underlines the correctness and time­ liness of a general review of this sector.
In keeping with the strategy it has devised for other industries , the Commission prefers to examine the problems of the textile and clothing sector in a much wider framework consistent with an overall and uniform approach to the problems of Community industry rather than in a solely sectoral context which requires specific measures.
The reason it wishes to do this is that there are several problems in the textile and clothing sector, some of which are extremely pressing, which also affect other industrial sectors to varying degrees and hence can be solved only by multi-sectoral economic and industrial policies .
A careful watch on the application of these horizontal policies
in each sector must be kept to see how they interact, if the inter­ nal consistency essential for these measures to be effective is
to be ensured .
 This is particularly necessary because, as must be the case in a global approach, these measures require the participation of all the parties concerned : the Community, the Member States , and both sides of industry .
3. Although this need for consistency must be borne in mind, we must also avoid the temptation of applying linear analyses and solutions to the, ent i re Communi ty textile and clothing sector .
There are some problems which are more serious or acute in the tex­ tile / clothing sector than in other industries , e.g. loss of jobs , pressure of outside competition , stagnation in demand and production .
Furthermore, any measures which are taken must make due allowance
for the structural differences which exist from one region to another with in the Community and the increasing differences between sub-sectors of the textile and clothing industry.
4. The textile/clothing industry makes a contribution - which has declined but is still substantial - to the Community economy in terms of employment, added value and exports, and is a part of the industrial fabric in which the interdependence between sectors is crucial .
In view of its economic importance and the extremely marked decline
in the possibilities of conversion to other activities, the Commission considers that the textile and clothing sector's important position
in the Community economy must be preserved.
Given the close interdependence between the sub-sectors of this
industry the Commission also considers it desirable that all the major stages of the textile/clothing production chain can be maintained in the Community .
^Finally, considering that there has been a - necessary - increase in productivity which is itself the cause for a considerable loss of jobs, the Commission holds that a concerted effort by the economic operators ought to be made : production in the textile and clothing sector should not continue to decline in real value terms below its present level.
 This objective can, however, only be achieved by means of radical, continuous adaptation and restructuring by companies themselves, with the support of the Community and Member States, mainly by the pro­ vision of a healthy economic environment for industrial development.
This environment consists in thefirst place of the economic reality of the Community, the second largest world market for textile and clothing products after the United States .
If firms are to draw the maximum profit from the sheer size of this market, it must operate as a single unit; barriers to trade between Member States , of whatever kind , must be avoided or eliminated .
Similarly, the Community must preserve the conditions of real competi­
tion within the Community and thus allow the most efficient firms to benefit from their structural , technological or commercial advantages . Thi s
means that at Community level that there must be a well-defined, consistent and selective approach State aids covering all aids granted to the textile and clothing industry whatever their main purpose. This approach
must allow for a progressive reduction of the aids in step with the progress in competitiveness .
The Community must take incentive measures and structural adjustment must also centre on more specific problems .
The investment which over the last few years has already made possiole large-scale re-equipping of the textile industry must be
reinforced by a capital -cost policy which will create the right investment climate and ensure a satisfactory return.
 The return will also be improved by eliminating the obstacles which may prevent optimum utilization of equipment in the Member States.
Investment will make a more effective contribution to improving the competitivieness of Community industries if it can make use of the benefits of geater support for research and innovation.
At a different level, the Commission believes it is essential to ensure greater consistency between the objectives and interests of
distributors and manufacturers . The position of manufacturers , and of small-sized businesses in particular, could be improved - especially as regards their commercial management - by greater cooperation between firms and this could be encouraged by the public authorities .
Finally, one major way in which firms' restructuring efforts could be strengthened and the public authorities assisted in defining their strategies under optimum conditions is to improve the
system of collecting and disseminating economic data (market and structural information ).
8. Community policy on relations and trade with its outside competitors must cover a number of equally important aspects which should be consistent and complementary .
This implies that the Community should adopt , if not an identical , at least a global approach to low-cost countries.
In view of the general economic situation, the particular problems
of the textile / clothing industry and redundancies in particular , and
the fact that the Community is already by far the largest customer
for textile and clothing exports from the developing countries, the Community cannot be indifferent to an increase in imports of these products from low-cost countries which will reduce the potential and present
level of production in its own textile and clothing industry ever further .
In consequence any increase in imports over and above the growth in consumption must be compensated by exports .
 In practice, if the Community is to try in a realistic manner to main­ tain the Level of production in its textile and clothing industry
it must take some action on exports. The main question here is
the opening up of markets in certain developing countries, parti­ cularly the most developed of these countries, to competitive
and similar products from the Community's textile and clothing industry. This question must figure in the negotiations for the renewal of the MFA. It might also be taken into account in the fixing of generalized preferences for textiles and clothing pro­ ducts .
Outward processing is above all a form of industrial cooperation which enables maximum benefit to be made from the comparative advantages between the partners involved .
Although the Commission recognizes the economic advantages of outward processing it Considers that there is a need for Community rules to allow an economically sound • development of outward
processing. Tn effect, it is essential to ensure that the development of outward processing between Member States converges.
Compared with its industrialized competitors the Community not only needs to improve the competitiveness of its industry but it must also
keep a close watch on any practices which might artifically alter con­ ditions of competition as regards exports and imports.
 The most disturbing aspect of the problems in the textile and clothing industry is undoubtedly employment. The number of redun­ dancies over the last decade has been very high. In addition to the direct effect of imports displacing Community production, there
is every sign that the increase in average productivity resulting from improvements in production technology, the disappearance
of less productive firms and constant pressure of imports will lead to further large-scale redundancies in the future.
The Community will therefore have to take stronger measures and find more funds for restructuring and conversion both in and out­ side the textile and clothing sector. Clearly, if the situation evolves as predicted there will be much greater need for conversion outside the textile and clothing industry .
Allocations from the Social Fund for workers in the textile and clothing sector will have to be considerably increased, since at
present they only cover one quarter to one-third of requirements. Regions where the textile and clothing industry is the main em­ ployer might be included in the category of regions eligible under the non-quota section of the Regional Fund.
However, in addition to raising more funds it is also essential
to be more selective in choosing in what new areas which workers should be retrained and redeployed .
The man-made fibre sector is an extension of the chemical industry, using chemical polymers or regenerated cellulose to produce man-made fibres.
There are two broad product groups :
a) artificial fibres produced from regenerated cellulose, and principally consisting of viscose or acetate rayon;
b) synthetic fibres produced from hydrocarbon polymers. There are three main groups - polyamide (nylon), polyester and polyacrylics.
Both artificial and synthetic fibres can be produced either in continuous filament ^silk-like) form or cut to the appropriate length for spinning (mostly in blends with other fibres) on the traditional cotton or wool spinning systems. Acrylic fibres are not normally produced in continuous filament form. Nylon is mainly used in filament form. Rayon accounts for 15% and synthetic fibres for 50% of . total fibres used in the textile indus­ tries of the Community (excluding minor fibres like silk and flax).
The sector is highly capital-intensive, like the chemical industry, and is dominated by 13 large companies accounting for 90% of Community production. The value added per head is very high and plants are highly automated. The major technological developments in rayon took place in the 1930s, and in synthetics during the 1950-1970 period. It is difficult to foresee major technical changes in the future because of the massive investment required and the current lack of profitability .
Although highly capital intensive the sector nevertheless employs some 100,000 people , many highly qualified technicians . There is no strong regional concentration although most plants are within easy reach of their principal textile consuming industries .
The explosive growth in demand for synthetic fibres between 1950 and 1970 coupled with rapid technological change led to massive capacity increases
in the Community (and in other developed countries). This in turn had a depressing effect on demand for rayon. As the rate of growth fell, aggra­ vated by the contraction of the Community textile industry, so major over­ capacity appeared , especially since 1974 . Substantial reductions have taken place but the problem is not entirely resolved.
A further problem has been the cost advantages enjoyed by the Community's principal competitor , the U.S.A. , in energy and in feedstocks (oil - and gas- based). During 1980 this cost advantage was increased by the relative weak­ ness of the dollar . This problem is less acute in 1981 .
Despite the problems and despite the fact that in many overseas markets prices are, forced to very low levels by weak selling at marginal prices, the Community maintains an overall trade balance in man-made fibres.
Figures in brackets are estimates
Natural fibres (principally cotton and wool ) are washed , combed or carded and spun into a yarn. Man-made fibres cut to a suitable length are also processed , often as blends , on cotton or wool spinning equipment . Combing is only of major importance in the wool sector, where the intermediate product, tops, are used for producing fine worsted yarns for high quality
Principally cotton , wool , acrylic , polyester / cotton , polyester / wool and polyester/viscose yarns. In the wool system the yarn (or tops or fibre)
are usually dyed. In the cotton system dyeing is carried out mainly at the fabric stage and the yarns are usually white. Some man-made fibres are produced in coloured form as fibre. In the wool industry very large amounts of recovered fibre are used. Although more cotton than wool is consumed in
the Community spinning sector, rather more man-made fibres are processed on
the wool system than on the cotton system. In consequence the total output of wool-system spinning is almost as great as that of cotton spinning.
Spinning was the original industrial textile process and has always been relatively capital-intensive. This tendency has increased as modern techno­ logy has produced faster and more automatic carding, combing and spinning equipment. A tendency since 1950 has been for spinning to be increasingly integrated with weaving ( less commonly with knitting ). Firms are generally
medium to large. Most small spinners apart from highly specialised producers have been eliminated by competition both from within and from outside the Community .
Approximately 260,000 people are employed in the Community spinning industry. The figure is not particularly significant because of the prevalence of inte­ grated spinning/weaving companies within which the allocation of management staff is necessarily arbitrary.
Because spinning was the original industrial textile process it has always been located close to the principal early source of power - coal. Recent
attempts to break away from this pattern have not always been successful and the bulk of the sector is still concentrated in areas of industrial decline .
Although capital-intensive, spinning is subject to severe competition from low-cost sources particularly where these are protected or subsidised in
newly industrialising countries.. In some cases access to indigenous cotton is also an advantage, but this does not apply to wool or man-made fibres. The decline in weaving and knitting in the Community in recent years has reduced the demand for Community spun yarns. Since 1950 too there has been increasing use of filament yarns of man-made fibres, not only in stockings and socks but also in a wide variety of other garments and above all in carpets and in industrial textiles. This too has reduced the demand for spun yarns .
The Community has had a trade deficit on spun yarns in recent years. The principal imports are in cotton yarns and the major sources have been Turkey and Greece. Now that Greece is a member of the Community this deficit on external trade will be reduced by approximately a quarter. Spain and Portugal are also large suppliers, but the principal source of cotton yarn remains Turkey .
Figures in brackets are estimated
Weaving is the principal fabric-forming process. Most of the yarns used
are spun yarns from the spinning process but increasingly since 1950 continuou filament yarns have been used. These have usually been twisted or bulked either by the man-made fibre producers themselves or by specialist "throwsters
Woven fabrics range from light weight voiles for scarves to the heaviest canvas for industrial purposes, including specialised fabrics for car tyres and circular woven fabrics for fire hoses. Carpets, including tufted carpets, are produced by a separate sub-sector employing similar basic techniques. Clothing is the principal end-use. Products requiring very little making-up (sheets, handkerchiefs, curtains, household textiles) are also mainly produced by the weavers themselves. There is also direct sale of fabrics by the metre to the consumer for home dressmaking or furnishings.
Although it is technically possible to operate small plants, the tendency is for increasingly larger plants to be necessary in order to remain competitive. This is because modern looms are usually automatic and require less human supervision . The sector is , therefore , capital intensive . Cottage industries persist in Italy (Prato) and Greece (Attica) and on a smaller scale in Scotland and Ireland . ,
Integration with spinning has become more common since 1950 but many medium to large horizontal weavers still exist. Some weavers also possess their own finishing, dyeing and printing facilities .
About 450,000 people work in weaving. This is approximate, because of the integration in some cases with spinning and or finishing. Employment as a whole has been substantially reduced by the use of modern automatic high speed wide looms . About 70% of employees are women . Most weaving , like spinning , is associated with older industrial areas .
Although weaving is capital-intensive , competition from low-cost countries , sometimes subsidised, has been a major problem. 73% of imports of cotton cloth came from low-cost countries in 1979. But during 1979 the U.S. mounted a major export offensive in textiles and substantially increased their sales of woven products , including carpets and bed-linen . Towards the second half of 1980 this offensive began to weaken as the dollar strengthened, but the
US remains a potential threat with its large-scale plant and high technology and is among the leading suppliers to the Community in several woven products There is no serious import problem in wool-type cloths.
The growing popularity of knitted fabrics has had an adverse effect on the de mand for woven fabrics, as well as the general stagnation or fall in clothing production. Non-woven cloths have also made some inroads into traditional woven cloths in industrial and household textiles.
In value terms the Community still has a positive balance in woven cloth, but it has declined in recent years. Exports mainly consist of finished fabrics or of wool fabrics, both of relatively high value, whereas imports contain a high proportion of unfinished cotton cloth. Imports of cloths and made-up articles from all low-cost countries are under quota. In volume terms there
is a substantial and growing deficit .
Production and trade figures exclude carpets and pile fabrics. Figures in brackets are estimated .
Knitting is the second most important fabric producing process after weaving. The needles are either mounted in circles, or in a flat row. The speed of production of knitting machines usually exceeds that of looms.
Circular knitting can produce complete garments such as socks or stockings (with the simple addition of a final seam in the toe) or simple tubes for
making undervests or 'T * shirts . Flat machines produce either shaped fabric pieces to be sewn together to make pullovers, or fabric capable of being cut, like woven fabric, and used in the clothing industry. A special variation on
this is warp-knitted fabric which has the dimensional stability of woven fabric . Some knitwear companies , notably in lingerie , produce their own cut and sewn garments; others sell to the clothing industry. The border line between the two is , therefore , imprecise .
Both spun and filament yarn can be used in knitwear, but not on all types of machi nery .
Knitwear combines elements of textiles and clothing. Some operations can be highly labour intensive - making pullovers; others like warp-knitting are highly capital intensive . Companies , therefore , vary widely in size and structure, but there are very few very large companies. There was considerable technical innovation in the 1950s and 1960s partly stimulated by the arrival of synthetic filament yarns, but the main impetus of this would now seem to be over .
Total employment amounts to some 450,000 people. There are some strong regional concentrations, but the industry is more scattered than spinning or weaving and is not particularly associated with the older industrial areas.
 Being mostly relatively small, knitwear companies are often in a weak bargai­ ning position in relation to their customers the retailers. Many knitwear firms have built up strong brand-names which help to maintain customer loyalty. Since 1950 the greater comfort and less formal appearance of knitted garments have contributed towards a more buoyant demand for knitwear. In some cases
the rapid increase in demand has led to overcapacity (tights), although in a sector with so many small firms the concept of capacity is not of great signi­ ficance. The continued trend towards informal leisure wear is likely to favour knitwear as opposed to traditional garments. Most of the benefit from
this growth has, however, gone to external suppliers rather than to the Community industry.
The Community is a substantial exporter of knitwear. Italian fashion and the classic knitwear of Scotland have a wide international reputation. But low-cost imports in more standard products such as socks, 'T' shirts etc. have grown at
a considerable rate in recent years. The deficit on knitted products increased by 74% between 1977 and 1979 from 595 million EUA to 1,036 million EUA. • The main knitted articles of clothing are under quota from low-cost sources.
The clothing industry takes woven or knitted cloth, cuts it and sews together the pieces to make garments. It is the cutting which distinguishes it from the knitting industry . In essence it remains an artisan operation , and
• although in large plants many hundreds of people (mainly women) work side by . side, it is not a typical industrial operation. It is still essentially a
woman with a sewing machine, even if the total operation is broken down into small repetitive components . ■ /
The products cover all types of clothing from casual wear to haute couture. STRUCTURE
Because of its artisanal nature the small firm is typical and the large firm
rare . Even large firms may have modest-sized plants . Below the firms considered industrial (20 or more employees) there are large numbers of work­ shops . '
Added value per head is among the lowest of all industrial sectors. Conse­ quently wages are tow, and this is undoubtedly related to the very high proportion of women employees and, in some large cities, the employment of . immigrants. The bargaining power of clothing companies is generally very weak compared with that of their retail customers. The scope for research, marketing and investment is very limited in most firms.
Nearly 1,000,000 people are employed in firms with 20 or more employees. The number in smaller establishments is not known. There appears to be no strong
regional concentration except in one or two major urban centres. Where these are flourishing, the clothing industry of necessity employs the poorest and often least skilled workers .
Demand for clothing is rising at barely 1% per annum. This, coupled with rapidly increasing imports has put considerable pressure on Community companies to improve productivity , and in recent years this has increased by 3.5% p. a .. For many standard products where fashion is not the key element. Community companies cannot compete with wages which may be only one-tenth of those in
the Community. Market penetration by low-cost imports exceeds 40% in some key products, and in some Member States exceeds 60%.
Outward processing is seen as a necessity by some companies for survival, but others , and the employees as a whole , do not find it an acceptable solution .
In some developing countries excessive financial incentives constitute a fur­ ther advantage to add to the low wages. Many developing countries' markets are closed to Community products.
The overall trade deficit has increased from 1,106 million EUA in 1975 to 2,246 million EUA in 1979. The Community is, however, competitive with other developed countries. All the main garments are under quota from the principal low-cost sources .
The dyeing, printing, bleaching and stabilising of yarns and fabric is the function of specialist finishers. These may be independent or work within large integrated companies . Closely associated with the finishing sector are the merchant convertors who are important in the cotton weaving sector. These merchants order cloth to be made to their own specification, or import grey (unprinted) cloth and then print or dye to their own designs. They may own no capital and have no factories, but create added value by causing work to be done. The extent of their activities cannot be deter­
mined from statistical sources, but they undoubtedly play a major role in importing fabrics .
There is no product strictly speaking, merely an added value, which may, however , be very considerable .
The structure is extremely diverse. There are commission finishers who execute the orders of others but who do not own the goods being processed; there are independent companies who buy, process and resell the goods; and there are companies within larger groups who may also carry out outside commission work . The average size of firms is relatively small .
Total employment is 153,000. For the most part the industry is located adjacent to the spinning, weaving and knitting industries they are designed to serve .
The finishing sector is largely dependent on the level of activity in the textile industry, or in converting. Host finishing processes involve high energy consumption and/or chemical treatment. Pollution is, therefore, a major problem. Since the cost of energy and pollution legislation vary considerably between Member States, there is considerable distortion of competitive conditions within the Community. External competitors may benefit from the virtual absence of any pollution legislation.
The value added by finishing may be considerable, bjit it is clearly impossible to identify it in the yarn and cloth entering into trade. The trade balance is, therefore, not capable of being calculated for this sector. The Community imports much more grey cloth for finishing than It exports but this merely reflects the fact that most finishing is carried out near to the final market. It does not imply either a positive trade balance or a competitive advantage compared with external sources.
Ireland and
Source Î rtsponte to the GATT TextUet Questionnaire and EUROSTAT.
1> Only enterprise* of 20 or oore employees Included* 2) Subject to slight revision*
Consumpt ion C lothing
Clothing
Age of installed cotton-spinning equipment in the Community and some non-member countries in 1977
Community of Nine
Less than 5 years
Between 5 and 10
20 years
number of
Percentage of total number per age category
The percentage of equipment less than five years old was between 5 and 10% for the largest manufacturers in the Community.
The international Textile Manufacturers Association (ITMF) has supplied details of cotton spinning and weaving equip«ent supplies for the majority of the manufacturers for the period 1974-79 and the nu.ber of mach.nes The ratio of supplies to number of installed machines gives an idea of
the degree of modernization. It should also be noted that, since it is calculated on the basis of the number of machines, this indicator gives a lower figure than is true in reality because a modern loom ,s muc more productive than the older looms which have been withdrawn fro.
of which I
0,862 at least
' No details are available for supplies from Western Europe, America, Asia and Czechoslovakia. Ring equipment manufactured by state-trading countries for their own account is hence not included. In reality the number of ring spindles is higher .
In the following table the number of' shuttle weaving looms installed J*** *
in 1978 is used as a basis of reference and the number of new looms (shuttle and shuttleless) installed between 1974 and*191(9 given.
The "rate of replacement" concerns shuttle looms only.
The "technological level" is defined as the ratio of total shuttleless
looms to the total number of looms (it should be noted that the largest number of shuttleless looms was installed after 1974).
The number of advance technology machines supplied by Western Europe or Czechoslovakia to Comecon is unknown (Open-end spinning -loom / shuttleless weaving loom ).
of which Β
( thousand )
Shutt lelèsí ( thousand )
( thousand )
841 or 84 Less 848 : Articles of clothing
841 or 84 Less 848 : "Articles' of clothing
* These two data diverge from the general trend. They could be the result of a factual error. i'''
841 or 84 Less 848:Articles of clothing
841 or 84 less 848 • Articles of clothing
 Imports of textile products into the Community by processing stages
\ Description of products
. Primary products 98.518 ■
. Wovert clothing 248.001 . Knitted clothing 132.393 . Carpets 46.251 . Industrial textiles
. Primary products 62.542
. Woven clothing 22.952 . Knitted clothing 10.775 . Carpets 10.965 . Industrial textiles
 Description of products
. Primary products . Yarns
. Woven clothing
. Knitted clothing
"CommunicatiDn of the Commission to the Council on the -situation and prospects for the Textile and Clothing Industries of the Community".
The proposed Communication to the Council aims at defining in a precise
manner the general context of an analysis of the textile problem as a whole, rather than to propose a series of short-term operational measures.
Indeed, the guidelines uhich are proposed here, if not leading to immediate actions, nevertheless point to concrete proposals to be specified later, which take into account the particular problems of one or the other branch of textiles/clothing, where the solutions can emerge more clearly with reference to this global reflection.
The social partners need to be closely associated in developing positive adjustmentpoliciesforthetextileindustryatalllevels. AtCommunity level , for example , they have a particular role to play in assisting in monitoring the impact of reconversion measures, from both an economic and social point of view, and in contributing to the establishment of a degree of social consensus without which adjustment policies cannot be successful .
1. The present economic situation in the Community calls for an examination and a more precise definition of objectives and the means by which these may be archieved in the context of an industrial policy.
This is certainly true of textiles and clothing uhere the need for adjust­ ment is particularly acute given the severe competitive pressure uhich these industries face and the consequential social and regional problems caused by the loss of employment.
During discussions in Council on the Community's approach to the future of the Multi-Fibre Arrangement and other elements of commercial policy for
textiles, a clear need has emerged for these policies to be put into their wider industrial context.
The Commission does not see the solution in a sector approach but rather in the framework of a global and coherent multi-sector strategy. Many of the problems are not exclusive to the textile and clothing industries although they may be experienced in a more acute form particularly as regards external competitive' pressure, the loss of jobs and the stagnation of demand.
It is also necessary to ensure internal consistency between the various horizontal policies given their interaction, the more so because their implementation involves the participation of the Community, Member states
•*abd both sides of industry.
2. The textile and clothing industries represent a major part of the Community's industrial structure, and contribute substantially to the total
valueadded,andtoexportearnings. Theyarealsolargeemployers,with no less than 9.6 % of the total work-force of manufacturing industry .
The diversity of their products, processes and structure and their creativity are important elements in the Community's industrial life both in themselves and in interaction with other sectors. This very diversity offers a wide
variety of possibilities for adaptation, through the reorganisation of capital structure, better use of manpower, technological change and innovation and,
by no means least important, creativity.
 The small bution of economies an active
and medium company can still operate successfully. The contri­ the industries to the total gross national product of our
is important . These industries must , and uill , continue to play and important role in the creation of wealth in our countries.
The Commission, therefore, believes that the industries must keep their important place in the Community economy. Because of the complex interdepen dence of the various processing stages, the Commission also believes that all the essential stages of the complete textile chain have to be present
in the Community.
This objective cannot, however, be achieved without considerable adaptation by the individual companies supported by the Community and Member States, notably by the creation of a suitable economic climate.
There is clearly a qeed for an abjective assessment and analysis of the problems and for a coherent industrial approach to be evolved, while the M.F.A. has to provide the industry with a degree of orderly market develop­ ment during which the industry itself, . national and regional governments and the Commission can work out suitable adjustment strategies . The oppor­
tunity must be taken to examine what is to be done at the various levels of competence and responsibility.
The objectives will only be reached if the correct policies are devised and the correct decisions taken at individual company level . The framework within which these decisions are to be taken should, however, embrace the following aspects of public sector responsibility.
 1. Internal Market and Competition
The Community is the second largest market in the world after the U.S.A. If companies are to benefit fully from its si2e it must operate as a signle market without barriers of any kind between Member States. A major effortisrequiredtoremoveobstacles, includingadministrativeprocedures and technical barriers and to open up public markets.
Tompanies should be able to operate in conditions of equal competitivity, including financial considerations such as access to and the cost of investment capital, loans and credit .terms. Efforts must be made to create, these conditions. Equally important is the need to ensure that these conditions are not artificially distorted. This requires on the one hand the most attentive observance by Member States of the existing framework for aids, particularly concerning the demand to limiting public financial support to the period and level indispensable for sectoral reconstruction and adjustment.
On the other hand, to assure the coherence of aids with the aim of sectoral development it is necessary to avoid that public interventions could provoke an escalation of aids in the Community or facilitate rescue-operations.
2. Factors of restructuring
There is no single solution to the problem of structure or production and marketingtechniques. Theindustriesincludesuccessfulcompaniesofwidely differingsize,structureandmarketapproach. Flexibilityisundoubtedly
key element in an industry where fashion changes are frequent and fundamental. Companies must, therefore, be able to react quickly to change in terms of their production and structural characteristics.
- Textile and clothing companies are frequently at a disadvantage with their customers,particularlythelargeretailchains. Theircommercialposition
might be improved by inter-company co-operation encouraged by public authorities .
 Continued i•sn-iija• snd irv, ri.\/srr-rnt r f ec ipi•isn«• lb essential for sur.cbnijful survival. Thereisaneedforpoliciescoveringreadyaccesstocapital at a cost which is compatible with satisfactory profitability .
Where highly expensive equipment is used it must be operated at an
optimum level. This may require a greater flexibility in working standards.
A continued and strengthened effort in research and development is required as also is innovation in products and processes. The effective diffusion and utilisation cf the results of research is clearly to be improved.
The immense variety of products and of customers together with constantly evolvingfashionrenuirpsasophisticatedmarketapproach. Companiesneed
a rapid and comprehensive flow of statistical economic and market informa­ tion. Thiscouldbeconsiderablyaidedbypublicauthoritiesatalllevels.
The public authorities themselves also require more precise and uiaer information about trends within the industry and its markets in order
to adapt attitudes.
World over-capacity in textiles and ov/er-ambitious expansion in clothing production have certainly intensified the competitive pressure for all producers in developed and developing countries alike.
- The Commission recognises that commercial policy is a major element in the problem. For these reasons the Commission confirms the need for the
renewal of the M.F.fl. and the bilateral agreements and for renewed arrangements with Preferential countries. Imports from the different categories of low cost competitors have to be seen in a global approach. '
- In terms of industrial countries ;the Community must reinforce the. compe- titivity of its own industry and keep a close watch on practices which
could distort the play of normal competition either in imparts or in exports.
- The opening up of markets of third countries at present effectively closed by restrictions or by prohibitively high tariffs must be a principal objective of external policy as well "with industrialised as with develo­ ping countries. This specific aspect must be borne in mind in the context of the M.F.fl.
- The use of Outward 'Processing as a form of industrial co-operation enables both partners to optimise their comparative advantage. It must, however, be governed by effective Community rules partly to avoid unrestricted use andpartlytoavoidimbalancesfromoneMemberStatetoanother. What should be aimed at is a suitable balance of supply sources Community
-'production, imports, and Outward Processing.
k. Employmenti Social and Re21Dn2ì_22EIE„
Higher productivity is a necessary condition for survival and, since this implies further loss of jobs, positive alternative employment policies must be pursued. The trades unions in these industries have behaved repon- sibly not only in accepting innovation but also in recognising the justice of the third world's claims. They are entitled to a genuine and practical response to their needs and difficulties.
 The increase in overall productivity due to technical progress and to the closure of less competitive firms is likely to provoke still further job loss in the years to come.
The Community must, therefore, intensify its action in favour of retraining. This mays take place inside or outside the industry but reconversion outside the industry will be much the more important.
CurrentSocialFundresourcesonlycover1Ato1/3oftheneed. Asfaras the Regional Fund is concerned, assistance from the quota section, for the improvement of the economic and, in particular, the infrastructure position of these regions uhere textiles and clothing play an important role, amounted to 800 MUCE between 1975 and 1980.^ In addition, specific measures are envisaged under the non-quota section for the reconversion of zones most threatened by the crisis.
The Commission is not empowered to plan the industry's future. Furthermore, there is no single solution to every company's problems in terms of structure or marketing and production policies. These are the responsibility of the individual company . 'What industry has a right to expect is a constructive approach at Community and national level to resolve the very considerable problems with which it is faced.
As there is clearly an obligation under the M.F.A. for a position adjustment
policy and not to maintain by artificial means companies or sectors which are not viable in the context of international trade, it seems appropriate at
a time when serious negotiations for the renewal of the M.F.A. are about to begin, to ask Member States to consider the nature of the problem and the possible policy options.
It is in this spirit that the Commission re-affirms its belief in the need to maintain a viable industry covering the complete processing chain.
The Commission also has a responsibility to draw the attention of Member States to the problem and to suggest some possible methods by which solutions could be found and to use its instruments in this direction.
Exportations intra-CEE
des industries manufacturières ;
"Communication of the Commission to the Council on the situation_and grosgects_far_thB Textile and Clothing Industries of the Community".
The proposed Communication to the Council aims at defining in a precise manner the general context of an analyses of the textile problem as a whole, rather than to propose a series of short-term operational measures.
Indeed, the guidelines which are proposed here, if not an immediate legisla­ tive action, nevertheless point to concrete proposals to tie specified later, and constitute for the Commission's services an indication to manage their tasks ih a way which takes into account the different problems of the branches of the textile and clothing industries, referring to this global reflection .
The social partners need to be closely associated in developing positive asjustmentpoliciesforthetextileindustryatalllevels. AtCommunity level, for example, they have a particular role to play in assisting in monitoring the impact of reconversion measures, from both an economic and
social point of view, and in contributing to the establishment of a degree of social consensus without which adjustment policies cannot be successful .
1. The present economic situation in the Community calls far an examination and a more precise definition of objectives and the means by which these may be archieved in the context of an industrial policy.
This is certainly true of textiles and clothing where the need for adjust­ ment is particularly acute given the severe competitive pressure which these industries face and the consequential social and regional problems caused by the loss of employment.
During discussions in Council on the Community's approach to the future of the Multi-Fibre Arrangement and other elements of commercial policy for
textiles, a clear need has emerged for these policies to be put into their wider industrial context.
The Commission does not see the solution in a sector approach but rather in theframeworkofaglobalandcoherentmulti-sectorstrategy. Manyofthe problems are not exclusive to the textile and clothing industries although they may be experienced in a more acute form particularly as regards external competitive pressure, the loss of jobs and the stagnation of demand.
It is also necessary to ensure internal consistency between the various
horizontal policies given their interaction, the more so because their implementation involves the participation of the Community, Member states abd both sides of industry.
2. The textile and clothing industries represent a major part of the Community's industrial structure, and contribute substantially to the total
value added, and to export earnings. They are also large employers, with no less than 9.6 % of the total work-force of manufacturing industry .
The diversity of their products, processes and structure and their creativity are important elements in the Community's industrial life both in themselves andininteractionwithothersectors. Thisverydiversityoffersawide
variety of possibilities for adaptation, through the reorganisation of capital structure, better use of manpower, technological change and innovation and,
by no means least important, creativity.
 The small and medium company can still operate successfully . The contri­ bution of the industries to the total gross national product of our economies is important. These industries must, and will, continue to play an active and important role in the creation of wealth in our countries.
The Commission, therefore, believes that the industries must keep their important place in the Community economy. Because of the complex interdepen­ dence of the various processing stages, the Commission also believes that all the essentiel stages of the complete textile chain have to be present
in the Community.
This objective cannot, however, be achieved without considerable adaptation by the individual companies supported by the Community and Member States, notably by the creation of a suitable economic climate.
There is clearly a need for an objective assessment and analysis of the problems and for a coherent industrial approach to be evolved, while the M.F.A. has to provide a period during which the industry itself, national and regional governments and the Commission can follow suitable adjustment strategies. The opportunity must be taken to examine what is to be done at the various levels of competence and responsibility.
The objectives will only be reached if the correct policies are devised and the correct decisions taken at individual company level . The framework within which these decisions are to be taken should, however, embrace the following aspects of public sector responsibility.
1. Internal Market and Competition
The Community is the second largest market in the world after the U.S.A. If companies are to benefit fully from its size it must operate as a signle market without barriers of any kind between Member States. A major effortisrequiredtoremoveobstacles, includingadministrativeprocedures and technical barriers and to open up public markets.
"Companies should be able to operate in conditions of equal competitivity, including financial considerations such as access to and the cost of investment capital, loans and credit .terms. Efforts must be made to create these conditions. Equally important is the need to ensure that these conditions are not artificially distorted. This requires on the one hand the most attentive observance by Member States of the existing framework for aids, particularly concerning the demand to limiting public financial support i#to the period and level indispensable for sectoral reconstruction and adjustment.
Ontheotherhand, toassurethecoherenceofaidswiththeaimofsectoral development it is necessary to avoid that public interventions could provoke an escalation of aids in the Community or facilitate rescue-operations.
2. Factors of restructuring
There is no single solution to the problem of structure or production and marketingtechniques. Theindustriesincludesuccessfulcompaniesofwidely differing size, structure and market approach. Flexibility is undoubtedly a key element in an industry where fashion changes are frequent and fundamental. Companies must, therefore, be able to react quickly to change in terms of their production and structural characteristics .
- Textile and clothing companies are frequently at a disadvantage with their customers,particularlythelargeretailchains. Theircommercialposition might be improved by inter-company co-operation.
 Continued renewal and improvement of equipment is essential for successful survival . There is a need for policies covering ready access to capital at a cost which is compatible with satisfactory profitability .
Where highly expensive equipment is used it must be operated at an
optimum level . This may require a greater flexibility in working standards
A continued and strengthened effort in research and development is required as also is innovation in products and processes. The effective diffusion and utilisation of the results of research is clearly to be improved.
The immense variety of products and of customers toother with constantly evolving fashion requires a sophisticated market approach . Companies need
a rapid and comprehensive flow of statistical economic and market informa­ tion/ This could be considerably aided by public authorities at all levels
The public authorities themselves also require more precise and wider information about trends within the industry and its markets in order to adapt attitudes.
3. External policy aspects
World over-capacity in textiles and over-ambitious expansion in clothing production have certainly intensified the competitive pressure for all producers in developed and developing countries alike.
- The Commission recognises that commercial policy is a major element in the problem. For these reasons the Commission confirms the need for the renewal of the M.F.fl. and the bilateral agreements and for renewed arrangements with Preferential countries. Imports from the different categories of low cost competitors have to be seen in- a global approach.
- In terms of industrial countries the Community must reinforce the compe- titivity of its own industry and keep a close watch on practices which
could distort the play of normal competition either in imports or in exports.
- The opening up of markets of third countries at present effectively closed by restrictions or by prohibitively high tariffs must be a principal objective of external policy as well with industrialised as with develo­ ping countries. This specific aspect must be borne in mind in the context of the M.F.fl.
- The use of Outward Processing as a form of industrial fco*roperation enables both partners to optimise their comparative advantage. It must, however, be governed by effective Community rules partly to avoid unrestricted use and partly to avoid imbalances from one Member State to another.
4. Employment, Social and Regianal_as^ecxs
Higher productivity is a necessary condition for survival and, since this implies further loss of jobs, positive alternative employment policies mustbepursued. Thetradesunionsintheseindustrieshavebehavedrepon- sibly not only in accepting innovation but also in recognising the justice ofthethirdworld'sclaims. Theyareentitledtoagenuineandpractical
response to their needs and difficulties.
The increasE in overall productivity dus to technical progress and to the
closure of less competitive firms is likely to provoke still further job loss in the years to come.
The Community must, therefore, intensify its action in favour of retraining. This mays take place inside or outside the industry but reconversion outside the industry uill be much the more important.
CurrentSocialFundresourcesonlycover1/4to1/3oftheneed. Asfaras the Regional Fund is concerned, assistance from the quota section, for the improvement of the economic and, in particular, the infrastructure position of these regions where textiles and clothing play an important role, amounted to 800 MUCE between 1975 and 1960. In addition, specific measures are
envisaged under the non-quota section for the reconversion of zones most threatened by the crisis.
TheCommissionisnotempoweredtoplantheindustry'sfuture. Furthermore, there is no single solution to every company's problems in terms of structure
ormarketingandproductionpolicies. Thesearetheresponsibilityofthe individualcompany. Whatindustryhasaright.toexpectisaconstructive
approach at Community and national level to resolve the very considerable problems with which it is faced.
As there is clearly an obligation under the M.F.A. for a positive adjustment
policy and not to maintain by artificial means companies or sectors which are
not viable in the context of international trade, it seems appropriate at a time when serious negotiations for the renewal of the M.F.A. are about to
begin, to ask Member States to consider the nature of the problem and the possible policy options.
It is in this spirit that the Commission re–affirms its belief in the need
to maintain a viable industry covering the complete processing chain. The Commission also has a responsibility to draw the attention of Member
States to the problem and to suggest some possible methods by which solutions could be found and to use its instruments in this direction.
Exportations intra-CEE
des industries manufacturières ;
des interventions , susceptibles
Exportations intra-CEE
des industries manufacturières ;
Production Consommation Importations Exportations EMPLOI
Kommissionsbasis ,
 ARBEITNEHMER in 1.000
of 84-848
of 84-848
of 84-848
grond ?, cof fen
Brussels , 27th July 1981
1. Introduction 1 2. The need for adjustment in textiles and clothing 3 3. The scope and direction of public policy 4
Situation of the industry : details and prospects 7 1.1 The macro-economic environment 7 1.2 General features of the textile/clothing sector 9 1.3 Specific features of the textile sub-sectors 10 1.4 Employment 14 1.5 The market 16 1.6 Development of trade in textiles and clothing 16 1.7 Production 19
The position of the industries competing with those of the EEC 19 2.1 Developingcountries 20 2.2 Industrialized countries 21
2.4 Spain and Portugal 23
Handicaps and strong points of theCommunity's textile and 23a
clothing industry
1 . The position of the textile and clothing industries in the 29 Community economy
2. The Community market and intra-Community competition 33 2.1 Attainmentoftheinternalmarket 33 2.2 Competition and public aids 34 2.3 Synthetic fibres 36
3.2 Utilization of plant and equipment 38 3.3 Coopeération 40 3.4 Information 42 3.5 Research and technologiical innovation 44
External aspects 46 4.1 Relations with industrialized countries 46 4.2 Imports from low-cost countries 46
4.3 Community exports
Employment and social and reégional
5.1 The employment situation
5.4 Other action in the field of employment 57
I Artificial and synthetic fibres
V Clothing
VI Finishing
VII Structural developments in textiles and clothing
VIII EEC indices of production, consumption, employment
and external trade
IX Age and replacement of plant and equipment in the
X Trade balance in texti les / clothing-1979
XI Int ra-Communi ty trade : imports
XIa Imports within the Community ( indices ) XII Exports within the Community
Xlla Exports within the Community ( indices )
XIII Imports from outside the Community
XIV Exports out of the Community
XV Imports according to stages of processing
XVI Employment in textiles / clothing in Community
1.1 This Communication sets out the Commission's position as to the situation and prospects of the European textile and clothing industry in the domestic and international economic context , and the Commission 's suggestions as to the appropriate lines of public policy - in the Community and in the Member States - in the future .
The Commission considers that a reappraisal of policies relating to the textile and clothing industries together with improved coordination of national and Community policies is necessary. The forthcoming renegotia­ tion of the MFA and the proposals on outward processing and on preferential countries mean that this has to be done now.
Commercial policy has been a key policy instrument over the past twenty
years, seeking to mitigate the adverse effects of shifting comparative advantage while encouraging industry to adjust to new trade patterns. The objective pursued by the Community in the MFA renegotiations is the orderly and equitable development of trade with all the low-cost countries which are MFA members , whilst seeking to avoid disorganization on these markets . Where the preferential countries are concerned, this objective will be pursued in the framework of bilateral arrangements under the Community's preference
However, these commercial policy objectives will not make the need for the Community industry to adapt to the exigencies of international competition any the less urgent .
Clearly, therefore, the pressures for change in the textile and clothing industry, both internally and externally generated, will continue and, in
some cases, intensify. The accession of Spain and Portugal in the near future must be taken into consideration in this context.
 It is the view of the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social Committee, and the social partners that the different policy elements currently under discussion require an analysis of past industrial develop­ ments, regarding the industry's ability to adjust to changing markets and economic conditions and to compete internationally, as well as a general textile policy framework.
1.2. The Commission's general approach is as follows :
- The ultimate aim of Community and national policy must be to ensure
that the adjustment essential to the long-term future of the textile and clothing industry is carried out effectively and without delay.
Thus, one of the important objectives of policies in the textile industry is to reduce the structural disparities which exist between the textile industry and other sectors of the economy, and between the textile industry in different Member States.
- A range of macro-economic and industrial policies are of relevance
to the textile industry.
Thus, the Commission's approach is to see how best to apply existing general industrial policy measures, rather than to attempt to conceive
a self-contained sectoral policy.
- These policies have to be conceived and implemented in a coherent manner because the different elements affecting textiles are interde­
pendent . All necessary steps are to be taken to avoid adverse side effects .
Thus, the impact of such policies should not be considered in isolation, because possible disparities or contradictions between them threaten both to undermine the common market and give rise to defensive poli­
cies which compromise the capacity of industry to adapt .
 2 . The need for adjustment in textiles and clothing .
2.1. The problems of the textile and clothing industry in the European Community have been the cause of continuing concern to the authorities and the general public.
need for modernisation within textiles
brought about by the age and the location of the
The industry, which pioneered the industrial revolution and continues to form an important part of the Community economy, has on the one hand suffered from general economic difficulties which are common to European industry as such, like e.g. :
- reduced economic growth
- increase of third country competition, both from industrialized and
- profound changes in the relative cost of factors of production, such
as labour , capital and energy
- major changes in the structure of demand, both in quantity and
- introduction of new
Secondly , a long term
and clothing has been
industry combined with additional sector-specific difficulties .
To date, the industry has had only partial success in implementing
the structural adjustment required by changing world market conditions. In the current recession, the adverse social and regional impacts of profound changes in the textile and clothing sector are apparent and undoubtedly in many cases such considerations have prevented or hin­ dered the realisation of thorough restructuring programmes.
However, the way out of current difficulties should be sought in the acceleration of the trend towards new products and systems of production and, generally speaking, in intensifying the efforts to achieve restruc­ turing and adaptation. This action is not confined to an isolated
techniques and technologies.
 sector only, but must be planned in connection with the whole of the ongoing process of structural adjustment, with the growth and employment potential that this entails if it is pursued in a coherent and continuous manner.
2.3 The need to adapt now being felt in the textile and clothing sector is un­ likely to ease in the future, and the Community industry will have to
deploy all the technological , organizational , marketing and manpower resoui– ces at its disposal in order to safeguard its future, bearing in mind that the main driving force for adaptation lies in the vitality of the firms themselves and their own industrial dynamism .
3. The scope and direction of public policy
3.1 To ensure that the necessary adjustment to the industry is carried out effectively , and given the intensive competition , uncertain demand prospects and the fact that there has been a shift in comparative advantage away from the Community, there is a clear need for more coherent public policies.
It is also more than ever necessary to coordinate ideas and to put forward proposals and recommendations to improve the ability of the European textile and clothing industry to restructure and adapt.
3.2 The macro-economic policies initiated to encourage the structural adjustment of our economies must be continued . In addition , the horizontal industrial policies must be adapted and applied in such a way as to accelerate the adjustment of the textile industry because of the delays that have occurred in this industry's adjustment. In doing so, account must be taken of the particularities of the sector, which is very heterogeneous (growing diffe­ rences are appearing between the various sub-sectors as regards their struc­ tural characteristics , and they have specific adaptation problems ) and creates certain problems resulting from the location of its activities which are often highly concentrated .
 3.3 Given the relatively bleak economic outlook and the continuing crisis in the sector, all Member States have been led, to a greater or lesser degree, to intervene in the operation of the industry.
The interdependence of
and environment , social and regional development , cannot be ignored . Any specific measure or regulation in one of the above fields has a bearing on others.
For example, external protection raises doubts about the justification of aid , while intra-Community trade barriers distort competition , hinder industrial restructuring and have a tendency to increase national aid levels. There is a real danger that an escalation of
the level and extent of state aids will create lasting distortions
of competition within the Community and blunt the stimulus for adjust­ ment .
3.4 Elements of such a policy approach are :
- the abolition of intra-Community trade barriers, the removal of any distortions of competition and the safeguarding of the proper and smooth functioning of the common market,
- the creation of an economic climate favourable to dynamic and offensive industrial strategies and, in particular , to investment , eg . improved profitability prospects for investment,
- the harmonisation of aid policies,
- the encouragement and support of industry's efforts in the fields of technology and innovation-
 - effective employment , regional and social policies , which on the one hand guarantee the long term future of those remaining in the industry and ensure the competitivity of the EC industry and on the other hand assist the redeployment of workers leaving the sector and the redevelop­ ment of areas where the industry has contracted.
3.5 Where the different responsibilities are concerned, it is the task of
- industry to intensify its efforts to restructure and to improve its international competitiveness ,
- nat^ona i_2overnments to introduce all necessary fiscal , social and regio­ nal policy measures , to encourage and support research and develop­
ment, and to improve the flow and availability of economic and com­ mercial information ,
- the Communjt^ to coordinate and to develop a common future-oriented industrial strategy because there is a strong need for making national policies with regard to textiles and clothing more coherent than was the case so far .
In order to embark on such an approach, it is necessary to define overall policy objectives, referring to the future role of the textile and clothing industry in , and its contribution to , the Community economy, including such questions as to whether it is desirable that all
stages of production should be present in the Community and which level of activity for a competitive industry the Community feels to be indispensable to its general economic and industrial balance.
1. Situation of the industry : details and prospects. 1.1 The macro-economic environment.
The economic context in which the textile and clothing industry has to undertake its adaptation is of very considerable importance : it makes
clear how wide ranging and general the structural changes are which the Community needs to implement in order to regain in time both better growth and better employment prospects; it underlines also the additional constraints which the current unsatisfactory situation and short term outlook impose
an any one sectorial adjustment process.
The slowing down of growth in the Community has been particularly marked in 1980 ; G.D.P. has actually increased by 1,3 % as against a growth of 3,5 % in 1979, for the current year a decline of 0,5 % in volume is foreseen. Allowing for the usual reservations about the reliability of medium term forecasts, and on the basis of a hypothesis of moderate growth during the second half of 1981 and in 1982, the growth in the Community during the
period 1981-1985 could be in the 1,9 % range , a rate of growth less than the average of 2,2 % between 197*t and 1980, and the trend rate of k,5 % in the sixties.
Inflation under the pressure of cost increases due to external and internal factors, has been about 10 % p.a. during the last five years, as against 5 %
between 1960 and 1973. For the next two years it seems improbable that an increase of less than 10 % can come about .
Unemployment, in the Community as a whole,has increased sharply in recent years; according to provisional data, the level of unemployment, as a percentage of people in employment, is currently 7,5 % (May 1981), more than 8millionpeople. Somegroupsareparticularlyhardhit:thelevelof unemployment amongst young workers (under 25 years of age) at the beginning of 1981 was.-1it %, as against 7,7 % for all wage earners; the share of woman in the total of unemployed is ^5 %, although they only account for 30 %
of the working population.
 In general, since 1973, the level of employment has increased only slightly whereas between 1960 and 1973 net job creation in the Community was 225.000 per annum. Regional disparities in terms of unemployment also increased in certain member countries since the beginning of the crisis. For reasons of demographic evolution the situation facing job seekers is unlikely to show much imporvement in the immediate future.
In 1980 as in 1979 gross fixed capital formation rose more rapidly than
G.D.P. However this fact must be viewed in the light of previous developments. During the 1970' s gross fixed investment in the Community only rose at an annual average rate of 2 % as against a rate of 5,7 % in the previous decade. Moreover the rate of growth of productivity per hour and of production per employee also slowed during the 1970's.
In this context , the Community economy has found it increasingly difficult to compete sucessfully with the U.S.A. and Japan, both on the domestic and external markets, while the newly industrialised countries have also made sharp inroads.
As a result , the Community has last market share in a wide variety of manufactured products.
In addition, changes in lifestyles and consumer habits have radically altered the structure of householf budgets so that increasingly , disponable increase is used to purchase. durable goods or for leisure, with adverse impact on basic necessities such as food or textiles.
Finally, economic factors which contribute to positive or negative develop­ ments in the Community have assumed greater importance than in the past, i.e. :
- Europe's dependence on external energy resources and other natural resources
- the decisive role of international trade accompanied by much tougher international competition.
- the repercussions of fluctuating exchange rates and price increases.
The activity of the textile and clothing industries covers the whole range of processes in which natural er chemical fibres are used to manufacture finished products / garments and articles for domestic or industrial use .
The following figures for 1979 show that these industries continue to occupy an important position in the industrial life of the Community :
- they employ more than 2.400.000 people/ i.e. 9.6 % of the workforce of the
- they account for 6.4 % of the added value in respect of these industries;
- they account for 6 % of Community exports of manufactured products.
The characteristic features of the textile and clothing industry are : - many interdependent processing stages;
- highly-diversified product ranges and market outlets;
- a large number of individual firms/ the majority of which are small and medium-
sized undertakings/ particularly in the clothing sector.
Whereas these features do not differ fundamentally from one member country to another/ there are important differences in their structure;there are basically three types of firm which predominate in a given region of the Community/ i.e. : - firms with a highly-decentralized structre/ very specialized in product
terms but with highly effective coordination in marketing and sales;
- the predominantly large / highly-integrated firms ;
- firms which concentrate on advanced production and compensate for the lack of
competitiveness of certain production stages by a judicious use of sub-contrac- tors outside the Community (outward processing )
 1 i 3i _SQec i_f i_c_f eatures_of _t he_text i_Le_sub-sec tors .
In considering the textile and clothing sector as a whole, attention should be drawn to the characteristics of particular sub-sectors which generate specific trends and problems and which consequently require different types of solution.
Although this industry employs only 100.000 people, it supplies some 50 % of fibres for the industries of the Community. It therefore plays a key role at the start of the textile production chain. It is highly integrated (thirteen companies account for 90 % of Community output) and oligopolistic; with an investment per operator of appriximately 200.000 EUA it is - like the chemical and modern textiles spinning industries - among the highly capital - intensive industries .
There continues to be a surplus of Community production in relation to consumption. But exports are encoutering evei– greater competition , especially from outside western Europe and are tending to fall. Imports, coming mainly from the industrialized countries, have returned to a stable level since the beginning
of 1981 and the massive imports from the United States in 1979 and 1980 appear to have ceased on account of the strengthening of the dollar, the increase in the price of chemical products following the deregulation of oil prices
and the anti-dumping measures introduced by the Community.
Since 1975, this industry has been facing a severe problem of overcapacity in most of the main fibre types due to the fact that the implementation
of the ambitious investment programmes decided prior to the 1973-74 crisis continued at least until 1977.
In recent years, firms have taken joint action to reduce capacity with a view to eliminating surpluses. With current prospects as they are, there is too much remaining capacity for firms to hope to operate, in the medium term,
on an economically satisfactory basis .
 The initial^stage s .of _grqcessing : spinning and weaving_(Annex_es II and III ).
- From a structural point of view, the feature common to these stage of production is that they are highly capital-intensive. The investment costs needed for the latest plant and equipment - as high as 150.000 EUA per
operator - are well above the average level for manufacturing industries as a whole. Modern machines have a higher output capacity, as a result of which the
labour component of the costs is reduced.
Not all firms, however, have reached this lavel of modernization. The average age of plant and equipment in this sector is still quite high
(annex IX). Seen as a whole, therefore, labour continues to be a significant component of the added value and the workforce still accounts for 25 % of the total value added in the textile and clothhg sector. Nevertheless, the situation is changing rapidly and a number of industries in the Community have stepped up the rate at which they are replacing their plant and equipment.
By way of comparison, the rate of replacement in the EEC has been two to three times more rapid than in the United States.
- In considering these two stages of production one must not overlook the traditional distinction between the wool and cotton industries which -
despite their growing use of chemical fibres - still differ in their specific technologies , product types and market outlets .
Whereas in the Community wool products have retained a significant propor­ tion of the demand for textile products, demand in third countries is weighted towards cotton type products .
It follows from this that on a worldscale the cotton processing system
 The Community market in cotton products is therefore subject to much greater pressure from imports than is the case for wool products, and cotton system products are more affected than those produced on the wool system .
Apart from the weaving processes geared to clothing manufacturers, there
is a much smaller sector, i.e. industrial or furnishing fabrics, where the situation is more favourable; this can be explained by the fact that deve­ loping countries have few or no outlets in their own markets for these types of product and also that the Community industry has advantages accruing
from its know-how, specialization and innovative capacity.
This sector is concerned with finishing operations , i.e. : bleaching , dyeing
of yarn of fabrics, printing and coating which require heavy and cumbersome plant (particularly for drying) and often highly complex and specific technolo­ gy (printing). This sector is therefore highly capital-intensive but has a very diversified structure in that it numbers 1.800 firms with a total work­ force of about 150.000 .
In view of the processes involved, this sector has to cope with two major problems, firstly, the cost of energy and secondly the investment and operating costs in respect of pollution-control facilities .
Economically speaking, its activity is closely dependent on that of the Community textile industry, in particular the spinning and weaving stages of production. But it may also handle the processing of products manufactured outside the Community and it may be in the interests of the finishing trade that there are minimum restrictions on imports of greycloth.
 )_Ihe_clothing_industr2es_(see_annexes_IV_and_V ) i
Two quite separate areas of technology are involved in the manufacture of clothing :
- garment-making (cutting and sewing of fabrics or cloth)
- hosiery and knitwear
from which two largely independent industries have developed.
Although the hosiery sector manufactures a number of articles which meet the same needs as articles from the garment sector/ it specializes in the manufacture of articles for which its manufacturing techniques are particu­ larly well suited/ such as underwear/ pullovers/ socks and stockings.
The garment making and hosiery industries are essentially labour-intensive; capital investment is low/ i.e. less than 10.000 EUA per operator. Together these industries employ some 1.500.000 people (nearly 3/4 of whom in the ready-to-wear sector).
A characteristic feature of the structure of these industries is the "large number of small and medium-sized firms. A number of factors may explain this phenomenon : only a modest amount of capital is required for investment
when a firm is set economies of scale highly competitive is such that there
up or modernized. Since the industry is labour-intensive/ are insignificant and even small-scale units may be
in terms of output . Furthermore / the diversity of demand is room in the market for small-scale production.
These industries have become highly organised in the developing countries where the ratio of wage costs to productivity is very favourable. Imports of these products have therefore taken a growing share of the EEC market and placed large sections of the Community industry in difficulty.
 Yet the situation of firms in relation to extra-Community competition
is very diverse. Those companies which are specialized in the manufacture of articles to meet the so-called "discretionary" demand, i.e.
where creativity in design is more important than the strictly functional aspect and where the developing countries have far less outlets on their own markets , may find themselves in a much more favourable situation .
In an economy such as that of the Community this discretionary demand - which now accounts for half of the demand for clothing - should continue to increase with rising living standards and thus offer good prospects
to firms geared to meet this demand.
For other firms manufacturing less sophisticated articles which have neverthe­ less managed to stay in business there is no certainty that the present situation will last. It may be that they will have to evolve toward the introduction of new technologies allowing them to reduce the labour compo­
nent in the total costs of production and to concentrate their activity
at the top end of the market (which would necessarily result in a reduction of business activity in volume ).
Since the textile and clothing industries are major employers of labour, special attention must be paid to the changing pattern of employment since 1973 and to the present situation ( see Annex VII ).
Whereas in 1973 there were more than 3. 1 million people employed in these industries, by 1980 thefigure had dropped to 2.3 million, a loss of about 27 %; taken annually, this represents an average loss of 115.000 jobs.
 This loss of jobs is mainly the result of the stagnation -or even drop- in Community production (Annex X), coupled with the increase in productivity. Increased productivity itself is the result of both a reduction in manpower/ owing to
the disappearance of firms which are too weak and of the necessary rationaliza­
tion measures. However, the relative importance of each of these causes
and the direct or indirect influence of the penetration of imports cannot be determined because there are no exact statistics.
It may be roughly estimated that, when productivity goes up by 1 %, 10.000 jobs
a year are Thus , over production
lost in the textile sector and 15.000 in the clothing industry.
five years, increased productivity of, say 3 % a year at a constant level will lead to an overall loss of some 375.000 jobs.
problems resulting from this reduction are felt particularly badly : workers (up to 80 % of all workers in the ready-to-wear sector);
The social
- by women
- at a regional level, since these industries are concentrated in specific regions
(Annex XVI), some of which are among the least favoured in the Community.
Up to 1973 the reduction in employment was very uneven in the different regions of the Community . In those regions where other industrial sectors developed rapidly , the labour force displaced from the textile / clothing industry was absorbed without difficulty and these activities practically disappeared in certain regions. On the other hand, in regions where other sectors were less dynamic, the labour force in the textile and clothing sector remained more or less stable.
If the pressure of international competition intensifies further it is to be feared that the loss of employment will be concentrated in those regions where, in times of low growth rates, it is all the more difficult to promote alternative employment where this was not sufficiently developed in periods of high growth rates.
If development prospects hold out no hope of a recovery or at least a stabilization in the employment situation, the solution to the resulting social problems must among other things be sought in conversion possibilities.
 The expansion of the Community market for textile and clothing products has slowed down considerably since 1973 :
- annual growth has fallen to 1.1 - 1.2 % from its pre-1975 figure of 3 - 5 %; - the share of household expenditure accounted for by clothing - the most
important item in the consumption of textile products - has steadily dropped from 8 % in 1970 to around 6.5 % in 1978. The elasticity in expenditure on clothing , compared with total household expenditure , has fallen to around 0.4 since 1973 ( compared with the previous 0.7 or so ).
Forecasts indicate an annual increase of approximately 1 % in the consumption of textiles and clothing during the eighties in the European Community.
The worldwide increase is estimated at 2.5 % p. a .
However, the present consumption level of textile fibres is :
- 23 kg per head in the United States - 16 kg per head in the EEC
which suggests that there is a potential market growth in the Community and a very important potential growth in the world as a whole.
The difference in consumption between Europe and the USA is due partly to a difference in patterns of consumption (quantitatively textile and clothing occupy a more important position in the American model) and partly (a fact which is at least as important) to the continuing difference in purchasing power , despite the higher wage costs in Europe .
li§i_Develo[)ment_of traÇl£_in textiles and clothing. 1.6.1 . Int ra-Communi ty trade .
Examination clothing in to a number
of the trend in intra-Community trade in textiles and recent years (1 974-1 979)-see Annexes XI and XII - leads of conclusions :
- the high volume of intra-Community trade in textiles and clothing; this reached 2.129.000 tonnes in 1974, exceeding imports from outside the Community by 67 %, and 2.697.000 tonnes in 1979, a level 31 % higher than imports from outside the Community. Intra-Community trade in clothing is distinctly lower - 267.000 tonnes in 1979 - less than imports from outside the Community that same year; the proportion of trade accounted for by textiles is thus clearly predominant.
The extent of intra-Community trade in chemical fibres is even more marked at almost triple the figure for imports from outside the Community .
- The increase in this trade in textiles and clothing between 1974 and 1979 was an overall 25 %, less than half the increase in imports from outside the EEC/ which amounted to 62 % during the same period.
- Trade between the United Kingdom and/ in certain cases/ Denmark and Ireland (Tables XI and XII) and the rest of the EEC has increased more
rapidly than for the other Member States since 1974/ the date when these countries joined the Community.
- There have been a number of sometimes contradictory trends within the Community market iself (Annexes XI and XII - indices ). Exports of clothes from Italy to other Community countries/ which were already the highest in 1974/ rose from a base of 100 in 1974 to an index of 172 in 1979/ whereas the index figure for the Community as a whole was no more than 124 . On the other hand / the figures for France / the Netherlands and the Belgium-Luxembourg Economic Union dropped over this period.
The trend in intra-Community trade in textiles and clothing is broadly comparable with the trend in intra-Community trade in other industrial products. However/ it is regrettable that the textile and clothing sector/ which by its very nature is less prone to technical barriers/ has been -especially of late - subject to more administrative barriers than other sectors .
Trade with third countries
The Community's trade balance with third countries in the whole of the textiles and clothing sector has developed as follows in recent years :
 Balance with non-Community countries ('000 T.)
of which :
The Community's foreign trade balance (Annex X) has been negative since the sixties in the clothing sector, since 1975 for textiles and clothing as a whole and since 1979 for textiles alone.
The deficit is increasing every year. Between 1973 and 1980, the percen­
tage of imports on the internal market increased from 21 to 44 % in terms
of volume ; this is the gross1 rate of penetration. The net 2 rate of penetra­ tion is around 20%.
Rate of penetration_on_the_EEC-market_by imports_from_non2CommuQ2t^_count ri_esi
The Community has always had a positive trade balance with the industrialized world in the textile and clothing sector; however, this trade balance has dropped steadily and appreciably from year to year and has become negative with the USA (for the first time in 1979) and with Japan (for the first time
in 1980), especially in the textile sector itself (Annex XV).
The deficit in the trade balance with the United States results from the marked increase between 1978 and 1979 in imports of textile products
(synthetic yarn, fabric and tufted carpets into the United Kingdom) and, to a lesser extent , items of clothing ( including T-shirts and pullovers ). The reason for the deficit in the case of Japan is the increased imports of textile products , especially yarns .
1 . Gross rate of penetration = the proportion of apparent consumption accounted for by imports .
2, Net rate of penetration - the ratio between the foreign trade balance and apparent consumpt ion .
Textile production has a fairly marked cyclical character (1973, 1976 and 1979 were years of high production) which makes it difficult to identify any trend in recent years . However , examination of the production indices since 1973 (Annex VIII) indicates that the production of the whole of the textile sector has at best stagnated in the past seven years. During 1980 there was a reduction. The stagnation in Community production is readily explained by the feeble increase in final demand and the increasing share of imports at all stages of textile production.
It should be underlined that textile firms in the initial stages of production (spinning, weaving and, further upstream, chemical fibres), suffer both directly
and indirectly from imports of textiles and clothing :
- they lose that part of the Community market in their own products taken by imports ;
- their market (which is made up of the Community industries which make the
final end-use products) i s also restricted as a result of imports of comparable
In view of the poor prospects of any increase in final demand, the development of textile activities in future years will mainly depend on the capacity of the Community industry to compete with imports and to improve its market-share and
also on its opportunities for increasing exports.
2. The position of industries competing with those of the EEC
In terms of penetration of their own market, job losses and penetration of foreign markets, large sections of the EEC industry appear to be performing less efficiently than their competitors in both developing and industrialized countries. An analysis of the situation in these countries should make it easier to understand this state of affairs.
In terms of value, imports from the developing nations amount to 40% of textile imports and 65% of clothing imports from outside the Community.
The developing countries find it relatively easy to enter the textile and clothing sector and several factors prompt them to do so : they often produce the raw materials, their labour costs are low and their own requirements already provide them with a market ; furthermore , the production techniques
do not always demand very highly-qualified staff or special conditions as regards geographical situation; in the case of clothing, it should also be added that the investment required is small.
As a result , a whole series of developing countries in Asia , South America , and Africa are rushing to take over from the newly-industrialized countries as the producers with the cheapest products and the highest labour-intensity.
The developing countries compete mainly in the clothing sector; their advan­ tage as regards wage costs is obvious and is often reinforced by working and social conditions which have nothing in com,"-on with those prevailing in the industrialized countries . Furthermore , some firms in the industrializing countries are now purchasing equipment similar to that found in the Community so that the differences in wage costs and productivity no longer cancel each other out .
The question of better access for products from the Community's industry
arises mainly in the case of those countries which are becoming i ndust ri a I i zed and which have a substantial market (either for local end use or for processing).
However, apart from a very small number of exceptions, these countries have a market which is practically closed to imports, particularly as a result of prohibitive import duties . If conditions of access were comparable , the Community industry would certainly be competitive on these markets as regards s number of products in respect of which the industrialized and developing countries complement each other .
In terms of value, imports from these countries account for 40% of textile imports from outside the EEC compared with only 15% in the clothing sector.
As regards the competitive situation of the European industry, comparisons should be drawn primarily with the USA. This comparison is difficult because of the diver sity of factors to be taken into account,in particular the evolution of exchange rates .
Firms in the USA have, however, the following advantages :
- a more favourable wage costs /productivity ratio ;
- greater social flexibility in the organization of working time, permitting
optimum utilization of equipment;
- a larger and much more homogenous internal market which can be catered for
by mass production; this also applies to the intermediate products - yarns
and fabrics - as well as to clothing;
- a better financial situation enabling them to make less use of the capital
market and thus cut down on financing costs;
- cheaper supply of raw materials and energy, although the recent abolition
of oil price regulation has considerably reduced this advantage.
The United States is less exposed to competition than the Community. It applies higher customs duties and, in particular, has only a limited number of large suppliers, making it easier to regulate imports (the Community has a very large number of suppliers under various agreements : MFA, preferential, ACP, Eastern-
Total imports of textiles and clothing from low-price countries were as follows in 1979 (.$ miIlion) :
EEC : 10,344 (of which MFA : 6,442) USA- : 5,151 (of which MFA : 3,944) Japan : 1,732 (of which MFA : 1,329)
The difference between the Community and the United States lies mainly in imports of textiles rather than those of clothing.
 Their imports of textiles from Low-price countries amount to only 2 180 million, compared with the Community figure of 2 4,077 million for a much smaller market. In terms of penetration , total imports ( in tonnes ) accounted for 41% of total consumption in the Community in 1979 compared with 12% in the United States.
Japan is another important case for comparison. Its industries have the following advantages :
- like firms in the USA, a better wage/productivity ratio than in the EEC;
- a market which is expanding more quickly than the EEC market, specifically
because of the Japanese taste for traditional clothes (even if this feature
is tending to disappear );
- State aids for restructuring measures .
They have a more integrated structure and are larger in scale than EEC industries. In their strategy, they are far more likely than the Europeans to steer their
development towards sub-contracting in the neighbouring countries of South-East Asia where labour is cheaper .
The Japanese distribution system is extremely complicated and plays a conside­ rable role in the establishment of prices. As a result, the producers have
stepped up their links with this sector, sometimes even integrating themselves
into the distribution system in order to reach their market under better conditions. However, this complication makes it difficult for foreign producers to gain
access to the Japanese market .
Imports from State-trading countries account for 8u of the value of Community textile imports and 12% of clothing .
In view of their specific economic system , it is difficult , if not impossible ,
to draw conclusions from trade trends on the competitiveness of their industries compared with Community firms .
 Their export prices are basically political prices which are not necessarily linked with the cost of production. Analysis of trade with these countries shows that the Community usually exports semi-finished products (part of the
trade is based on outward processing ) and imports finished products .
As a result, the Community's overall trade balance with the countries of Eastern Europe is slightly positive in terms of tonnage, but negative in terms of value (-170 million EUA).
It should be noted that the State-trading countries of Eastern Europe are strong competitors of the Community as regards flax productsand that they have a vast potential for increasing exports. As far as trade with China is concerned, the bilateral agreement signed in 1979 has made it possible for China to achieve a substantial increase in its exports of textile and clothing products. The agree­ ment envisaged, and this is the only agreement of this kind up to now, that the balance of trade in textiles and clothing between the Community and China should not be adversely affected by the way the agreement operates. The Community is
at present looking into the question - after the two years during which the agreement has been in operation - whether the import-export relationship has in fact deteriorated or not .
2.4 Spain and Portugal
Both countries have important textile and clothing industries, particularly Portugal .
The effect of these two countries on the European Community industry's competi­ tive situation should also be viewed in the light of the greater competitive potential that will ensue.
In terms of value, imports from Spain and Portugal account for 9% (4%, 5%) of textile imports from outside the EEC and 6% (2%, 4%) of clothing imports. The trade balance of the EEC in textiles and clothing is negative with both.
 Both countries have wage-cost advantages in comparison with the Community, although recent developments in Spain have markedly diminished that advantage. In addition to their preferential status, they benefit from their geographical proximity to the Community's markets and, in the case of Portugal, from trading
links established with the U.K., Denmark and Ireland in EFTA.
After accession two-way trade can be expected to develop. As regards third countries, tariff protection will become less as the two countries progressively adopt the Community 's tariff structure . In addition , both countries will be absorbed into the Community's pattern of textile trade agreements and
3. Handicaps and strong points of the Community's textile and clothing industry 3.1 Handi^cags
The Community's textile and clothing industries are confronted with difficulties of varying importance in the modernization effort which they are undertaking
to maintain and improve their position .
i) Imperfect know^ed2e_of_econom2C_cond2ti_ons
Firms , especially small and medium-sized business , do not always have the necessary knowledge of the economic environment in which they conduct their activities. This inadequate information hinders them when they assess their opportunities for maintaining their position or expanding in a specific section of the market and , accordingly ,
in selecting their medium-term strategy (type and volume of invest­ ment , staff policy ).
 Ignorance of the current Community market also makes their short-term management more difficult as they cannot immediately assess their current position. This may also discourage them from trying to expand their outlets, which are often restricted geographicaIly, to the whole of the Community market .
Shprtcgmings_at_managgmgnt and staff__levgl
Efficient management is essential to a firm's success and a key factor in increasing a firm's internal and external dynamism and, consequently, its international competitiveness. Although the competence of the senior management of many firms in the Community textile and clothing industry cannot be called into question, a large number of firms suffer from the lack of innovatory , forward-looking management .
As a traditional industry, often run by a family, the textile and clothing industry is often typified by conservative methods which fail
to make full use of the management methods developed in other industries. This is aggravated by the difficulties which the textile and clothing industry finds in recruiting (and keeping ) highly qualified managers .
The textile and clothing industry has been slower to adjust than other branches and is not always able to offer comparable wages ; furthermore , it does not appear as a modern sector of the future. Its attraction for the young is, therefore, very small.
Notwithstanding remarkable exceptions, strategic planning is inadequate in many firms as they all too often restrict themselves to short-term business planning which no longer satisfies current requirements.
If the problems posed by a situation dominated by price competition are to be solved, a large number of firms will have to give priority to management oriented towards marketing and distribution instead of to production methods .
Problems assoc_iat ed_wi th__i nvestment
Modern equipment is extremely expensive in the initial stages of proces­ sing, mainly spinning and weaving. In view of its continuing poor pro­ fitability, this sector has to use the capital market and thus accept high financing costs ; furthermore , risk investors are not very inclined to commit themselves in this sector .
The Community industries may also find themselves at a competitive disadvantage compared with the industries in third countries which often benefit from favourable interest rates as part of export credit schemes when they purchase Community-made textile equipment (not counting the investment subsidies which these countries often grant
to their firms).
Community firms which operate in the parts of the textile sector demanding most capital are often handi capped, i n comparison with their competitors , as regards the conditions for operating their equipment .
The annual period of operation for equipment in the Community is estimated at an average 5,700 hours. This figure is lower than in a large number
of countries with a strong textile industry, irrespective of whether they are industrialized countries like the United States or Japan or industria­
lizing countries like Brazil, India and the main textile producers of South East Asia where the figure often exceeds 7,000 hours.
 Annual production from the same type of equipment is thus Lower than in the latter countries and the cost of capital as a proportion of the unit costs of production is higher.
Capital costs are often higher than labour costs in modern plant, espe­ cially for spinning and weaving; there is thus an appreciable difference between the capital-related unit costs in the Community and in non- Community countries.
This affects the profitability of the Community industry and reduces the benefit of compensating for high labour costs by using equipment which performs well but is expensive; it also discourages them from investing in equipment of this type .
v) Inadequate research and development activities
To face competition from low-price countries, the Community industries will have to increase productivity and specialize in products requiring a high level of technology. They will achieve this only by means of extensive research and development activities concentrating both on materials and production methods.
However, to judge by the few outstanding innovations recorded in recent years in the textile and clothing sector, current research and development activities are obviously inadequate.
This appears to be due to the following factors :
- the profitability of textile and clothing firms is not sufficient for them to find the necessary financial resources;
- in"the clothing industry, in particular, the average size of firms does not allow them to take part in any development activity which reaches a minimum level of effectiveness .
 3.2 The stronçj_goi_nts
When designing guidelines to pave the way for these industries maintain their position in the Community's economy, prominence should also be given to whatever strong points they possess and could use in order to maintain or better their position .
The Community's textile market is second to that of the United States. It is not expanding fast but, as in the United States, there is every reason to believe that it will keep pace with the standard of living.
The existence of a vast market means that the Community's industries have several advantages :
- obvious economic advantages due to the proximity of outlets for their goods , eg . transport costs , delivery dates ;
- marketing advantages - because they know their own markets they can adjust to them faster and take immediate advantage of any changes .
Il2 ^ii22D_2l_£rf a t j vi^t ^
The tradition of the Community industry 's creativity , particularly in clothing and the manufacture of certain fabrics, allows it to maintain the lead in those market areas where fashion determines demand. This involves
not merely a few luxury items but products in all price ranges.
However, it should be noted that companies make their biggest profits in the top ranges where the consumer is less concerned with price than with novelty .
Companies can also enlarge their market by concentrating their creativity on the satisfaction of new needs .
 The enormous expansion in the Last few years in the Leisure wear market
is an example. In spite of the growing probLem of pirated copies and the fact that it is Less and Less true that the processes of design and produc­ tion necessarily go hand in hand, the creative potential is still one of the Community industry's most important assets and it must spare no effort to maintain or widen its lead.
i) The_existence_in the Community of_a complete_texti le_chain
In spite of the difficulties of certain subsectors which have suffered more
than others from heavy imports, all production stages from the manufacture
. of chemical fibres to finished products are capable of becoming permanently viable given an appropriate adjustment effort. The fact that every link in
tfhe textile chain is represented in the Community is an advantage in that no link will become entirely dependent for supplies or outlets on a sector' or activity based outside the Community.
Furthermore this enables companies at each stage of the processing chain to specialise, in the assurance of finding downstream customers for their products .
Whilst at the major intermediate stages ( spinning and weaving ) production may be carried out by machinery which does not require highly-qualified personnel to operate, it is nonetheless true that, given the same equipment, companies employing more qualified personnel more accustomed to production conditions (as is the case in the Community) obtain a higher output than companies where this is not the case . Besides , where better qualified operatives are available, more sophisticated and particularly more fully automated equipment can be used .
Also the Community's industries still have the lead in particular operations in the textile cycle, eg. textile finishing and the manufacture of special products such as furnishing fabrics and industrial fabri cs which have special characteristics. For the user the quality of this type of product is more important than the selling price, and producers could make use of their advantages in equipment and know-how .
1 . The position of the textile and clothing industries in
.1 To ensure the industry's competitiveness and therefore
order to comply with international agreements of which
signatory, the textile and clothing industry must complete the reorganiza­ tion of its structures .
In spite of the accepted need for adpatation, the Commission has never adopted certain past theories, based on the international division of
labour , that the textile and clothing sector , as a labour-intensive industry has to emigrate to developing countries. The technical and economic develop­ ment of the industry has itself demolished this argument.
An uncontrolled transfer of the textile and clothing industry would not
be advisable in the current economic situation, not would it answer the Community 's endeavours to keep a balanced industrial structure . It is clear that because of its customer and supplier relationships with other industries the textile and clothing industry is an essential factor in this industrial ba lance .
The textile and clothing industry is not only one of the Community's biggest industrial employers; it also employs people with a training which fits them for few alternative jobs. This factor is all the more important when it is realized that the industry is usually sited in places where it is the major employer or where other industrial employers are similarly affected by the economic recession .
the Community economy
survival , and in the Community is a
 Finally, since the industry accounts for 6% of the Community's industrial exports, and in spite of its being in deficit, the textile and clothing
industry makes a contribution to the Community's trading balance and balance
of payments which we cannot afford to relinquish. Exporting textile machinery
and equipment to new producer countries would provide only partial compensation, quite apart from the fact that the manufacture of textile machinery has a natural tendency to move to where the textiles themselves are produced. Besides, there
is an imbalance between the two. The world market for textile machinery is one-tenth the size of the market for the products of the textile and clothing industry . ( 1 )
The Commission therefore reaffirms the view it set out in the communication of
. 20 July 1978 (2), namely that the textile and clothing industry should continue
to occupy an important place in the Community's economy.
The Commission considers that a sustained effort should be made, in the first instance at industry level, to maintain all the main types of production in the Community in spite of the difficulties resulting from the comparative advantage this would give the low-cost producers, particularly in some products at the bottom of the range.
If the Community were to give up certain types of production then - in view of
a certain tendency to specialize and the growing interdependence of certain stages of production - there would be some danger of whole industries emigrating. This can be avoided only if the European Community industry maintains a signi­ ficant level of activity and therefore remains in command of production techno­
logy and in control of the outlets for the products of the main stages of pro­ duction of the textile and clothing industry.
(1) The world market for textile machinery was estimated in 1980 at 10.000 million EUA, against 85.000 million EUA for world trade in textiles and clothing.
 1.3 Whilst there can be no question of the public authorities laying down an optimum or minimum strategy for a given industrial sector, the Community must ng/ertheless have a clear idea of what overall quantitative changes are lively to take place in the future and of what these changes imply .
There will "be only a slight increase in the consumption of the products of the textiles and clothing industry .
It is highly unlikely that the Community wi?l he .ible to contain the growth in imports from a1! sources so as to prevent imports emailing or exceeding increases in consumption .
If therefore we are to maintain production at present levels , any increase in imports exceeding the consumption growth rate must he balanced by exports.
It would seem to be even more justifiable to adopt this as an objective since it is now known that even at a cons tant production level , improvements in pro­ duction will inevitably lead to a further substantial loss of jobs in the next few years .
1.4 The general aims proposed by the Commission for the textile and clothing industry may therefore be summarized as follows :
- that a competitive textile and clothing industry continues to be important in maintaining the Community 's industrial equilibrium :
- that all the industry's essential production stages continue to be represented in the Community;
- to develop exports by a joint effort, within the rules of the GATT, by the industry and public authorities.
 - a combined effort by the industry to ensyre that production in the Community s
textile and clothing sector does not fall below the level of the last
few year In view of increased productivity and the qualitative improvement of products , it would seem more appropriate to express this aim in terms of the real value of production, rather than in terms of volume or tonnage .
These aims must be pursued within the limits imposed "by the need to avoid abrupt changes in employment and to create a framework within which companies can work out a long-term strategy.
Nevertheless, these aims can only he achieved subject to two conditions:
- companies must continue with and intensify their efforts to reorganize structurally, particularly by means of long-term development'planning and more
flexible production strategies better adapted to- the needs of the market;
-publicauthorities(whether Communityornational)mustsupporttheseefforts and create an economic environment in which the companies * measures can take effect by creating a unified internal market, promoting investment, pursuing a coherent public adds policy, promoting technology and innovation, making
an effort to harmonize pollution laws, conductirgpersonnel training programmes and eliminating barriers to the optimum use of equipment .
 ?. The Community market and intra~Comm.unity competition
?.l. Attainment of the internal_market
Effective restructuring means creating a eingl'. market of adequate size with no internal barriers.
Although the common market is less homogeneous than, for instance, the United States market (e.g. commercial structures, varying consumer tastes)
a properly functioning common market would promote structural adjustments in
.internal operations as well as at the level of external competition. In view of the volume and growth of intra-Community trade , it may "be said that the basis for a common market in textiles and clothing already exists and that many barriers have already been eliminated, e.g. by harmonizing textile
names - at least as far as goods of Community origin are concerned .
However, we must be careful not to introduce new barriers and, where necessary, the Community must take firm action.
Barriers may persist or bo re–introduced whether in a form specific to the textile and clothing industry (such as requiring certificates of origin for goods >n free circulation.) or random (such as stepping up administrative controls at intra-Community borders , a factor which has considerably interrupted the flow of trade between Member Htates in recent months or specific and in the form
of national laws requiring, for instance, the origin marking of products of
the textile and clothing industries.
Cn the latter point the Commission should take steps or put forward proposals aimed at•
- avoiding or eliminating barriers to trade within the common market at every level of the process of manufacture and distribution ;
 - ensuring that one and the same approach toindieating origin marking is used throughout the common market.
The internal market should not operate solely for
"but also for products from outside the Community. When considering commercial
policy the question should therefore he asked whether the regional quotas are
not a contradiction of the concept of a single Community market , a concept which the ESC champions in its external dealings.
On the same point , there is a clear contradiction between a common trading policy for products of the textile ajnd clothing industry and the provisions of Article 115 of the EEC Treaty.
Although the criteria for applying Article 115 were made more restrictive in.1980 •nd it does not apply to certain countries of origin (products imported from preferential countries. Article 115 is still frequently used in the area of textiles and clothing.
But even where , in exceptionEil circumstances , there is a danger of distortion or disturbance which might justify action under Article 115 , the Community should en- deavourto limit free movement less frequently and be stricter in applying the economic criteria . •
Competition and public aids
In a market economy such as that of the European Community, it is recognized that competition is the factor which most effectively encourages restructuring, and financial intervention by public authorities should therefore be kept to a
level recognized as the indispensable minimum.
 In the Community 's textile and clothing industries , State subsidies are justifiable only when they are essential for completing the adjustment and restructuring process needed in this sector, or for alleviating the more serious forms of social distress which might result from the process of adjustment.
Generally speaking , public subsidies to companies should be :
- more transparently devised and applied so that the industry in one I-Iember State is not discriminated against or does not consider that it is being discriminated against as compared with the industry in another Member State;
– more consistent so as to prevent "ember States outbidding each other in subsidies and perhaps permanently distorting intra–Community competititon. This includes doing away with operating aids .
Since 1970 the Commission has been issuing guidelines on aids to the textiles sector. These are included in the measures communicated to the Member
Stales on 22 July 1971 and 4 February 1977 . The aim of these measures is to ensure that the aids to the sector are temporary , decrease from year to year and
are suited to their purpose , and they have already resulted in greater consistency and transparency in this field .
Although there is some danger that aids of this kind are seen not as the maximum
acceptable but as a right , the Commission thinVs it would be useful to set out
certain aspects of Community policy in these measures , particularly in order to prepare against aids to the sector escalating and being maintained at a level higher than necessary to achieve positive adjustment .
Close cooperation between the Commission and the I'ember States should, in particular, result in a more specific definition of the concept of restructuring for which
the aids are to be used . This presupposes an assessment of the viability and
specific problems of the various subsectors in view of foreign competition, and deciding on priorities and excluded areas .
 In addition the Commission will make every effort to:
- define what type of operational aid may be regarded as compatible with the
normal functioning of the common market in textiles and clothing. In this context the following types of aid should be mentioned: subsidies for technological innovation, energy saving and environmental protection. But at the same time existing multi-sector measures or any such measures introduced in the future
must also be taken into consideration ,
- establish a system of post-monitoring of sectoral and other aids, eg. regional aids. This will enable the Commission to keep up to date on current aids and hold regular diocussions with Member States.
It should be remembered that in 1977» when faced with excess production capacity
in the synthetic fibres sector, the Commission decided to call upon the Jlember States under Article 93 (l) of the EEC Treaty to suspend all aid likely to create
new capacity. The Commission also requested the Member States to notify it under Article 93(3) of any general or regional aids granted so that it might have- a complete view of the situation as regards aids to the industry concerned .
 The firms themselves have carried out a considerable amount of capacity- shedding on the basis of a joint plan.
Clearly where further reductions or restructuring operations are undertaken within the framework of inter-company cooperation, they must comply with the Treaty 's competition rules and the Community 's industrial policy objectives .
The lead which the Community's industry holds over its low-cost competitors the qualitative chances in trade within the Community, where textile
products play a prominent part , and the examples offered by the American and Japanese industries all point to the fact that the future of the Community's undertakings could lie mainly in products which require
heavy capital investment , advanced technology , highly qualified workers and a large measure of creative skill .
Consequently , investment and re-equipment by the Community *s industry must "be held at the current level (which,as has already been shown, is still high)
and perhaps even be stepped up for branches such as weaving and spinning in particular. On the other hand, there are a number of obstacles which put a
brake on the propensity to invest, and various factors which put at risk their their rate of return. Accordingly, one of the priorities of the Community's economic and general industrial policies should be to remove or neutralize those obstacles, through the re-establishement of general economic conditions in which the cost of capital returns to a level consistent with a normal return on
industrial activity. Only then will the textile and clothing industry once again be able to attract the risk-capital investments which it lost some time ago and direct 1t9 efforts towards more promising products.
Utili ation of plant and equipment
These investments will not be made unless companies have some guarantee that they will be able to make optimum use of their equipment, possibly by introducing four or even five shifts, and thereby gain the maximum
return on their investment over the eight or so years* service life of textile plant and equipment..;
 However, in some Member States plant operating hours are Limited by law or convention .
This is not an area for Community legislation. These laws or attitudes are part of the 'unique pattern of social arrangements peculiar to each individual
kember State# The Commission nevertheless feels that a Community initiative is desirable. It might take the following form :
- initially, an assessment of the impact of the problem;
although there is no denying that these obstacles hamper only one part
of the industry , namely companies which manufacture capital-intensive products and therefore have to invest heavily, it is nontheless an important sector, in which the future prosperity of the Community's industry lies;
- at- the same time the extent and nature of the obstacles must be defined , "though the higher unit labour costs resulting from the extra shifts
should be regarded as part of the social heritage which each company has to allow for when organizing its activities;
- finally , the Commission intends to maVe the national governments and both sides of industry more aware of the problem and to invite them to
join together in seeking solutions that will permit more profitable use of equipment without prejudice to what has already been achieved in terms of social progress .
For oil that , particular attention is drawn to the need to avoid any trend toward the lowest common denominator in the efforts to harmonize
capacity utilization within the Community with that of its competitors . Although
some changes could be made to working patterns in the Community, an effort should be made to ensure that no advantages are derived from social
conditions which do not conform to the accepted recommendations of the ILO.
 There is also a seasonal aspect to this problem. The textiles and clothing industry - and particularly the clothing sector - has to cope with markefl seasonal fluctuations in demand. The Commission should use this as another argument in favour of greater flexibi lity during its talks with the national authorities
and both sides of industry.
The textiles and clothing industry is made up largely of small and medium-sized undertakings .
- This is not necessarily a disadvantage in the clothing or knitwear and hosiery industries,atleastasfarasproductionisconcerned. However,thesituationis different for certain textile products where production must cross a specific
critical threshold determined "by the investment made , and where marketing strategy cannot be confined to the companyfs home market alone.
Although small- or medium–scale operations may be an advantage in some branches of the industry , giving greater flexibility at the production level , they can
often work to the company's disadvantage at the marketing level, since they offer only limited scope for prospecting new markets or for commercial investment . Greater cooperation between companies could help to bridge the gap between production capacity and commercial capacity, particularly as regardsexports to non-Community countries , and public authorities should encourage initiatives and investments in
this direction.
The predominance of small and medium-sized undertakings is also an important factor as regards the relationship between the production and distribution sections of the textiles and clothing industry.
 The large share of distribution casts m the ultimate price of the product , the increasing bargaining power of the major distributors on a buyers' market and the distributors * decisive influence on trade flows are all symptoms of the problem which besets relations between the distribution and production sides of the textile and clothing industry.
The Commission feels that it would be highly desirable for each side to obtain
a clearer understanding of the restraints under which the other operates and for each to adapt in an effort to bring their objectives and strategies closer together.
One important step which could be na.de in this direction, at either national
or Community level, would be to arrange for appropriate contacts between the industry, the distributors and the public authorities.
The fact that the information that is currently available on the Community's textiles and clothing industry is out-of-date and does not give a sufficiently
full picture of the market , poses problems for companies and public authorities alike .
From the companies^ point of view, the lack of information makes it difficult todiscovertherightapproachtothenewmarketcoaditions: andtodecide
on an effective policy and mangement plan.
For public authorities the Community and the national governments,
the lack of comprehensive up-to-date information makes it difficult to produce an accurate, realistic analysis of the situation of the industry, to pinpoint exactly which problems have to be solved and to define exactly which political measures should be taken in a given situation.
To help meet the industries* needs, the Community has already taken the initiative of co-financing an information centre on textiles and clothing (CITH). The primary aim of the centre is to provide the Community*s textile and clothing undertakings with detailed statistics and economic data on the Cominunity market , e.g. information on production trends , stocks and consumption in the various branches of the industry.
The Centre is also expected to provide details of market trends in non–Community countries, which can be an extremely viseful guide for Community producers, and on developments in the textile industries in those countries. Eventually it will extend its work into more detailed market analysis at individual product level and into distribution networks , in order to alio',-; companies to evolve better sales strategies tore closely tailored to the market .
 Public authorities can also help companies to ootair. a clearer picture
of their c"-m activities by following the lead of certain "ember States and arranging sectoral or regional exchangee of information on a vide variety of topics including productivity , investment and , possibly , methods of production .
Added to this , a considerable volume of information is produced by the trade associations or official public bodies in any given ''ember State . \1 though this
Information is usually very accurate and detailed, it is often of extremely limited practical use, partly because of its fragmentary nature (it often concentrates on a single market or on a given region, reflecting the special interests of the
body responsible for the study) end partly because different methods and terms of reference are employed .
For this reason it is nov; tine to look into ways of combining all this
information in a single homogeneous system at Community level , in the form of a Community data base system, to which both Community and national authorities and the companies themselves could have access .
Moreover, the joint efforts ma.de by the "ember States and the Community should be continued and intensified in order to make the Community's statistics more reliable , more up-to-date and more comparable .
 3,5. Research and technological innovation
- If the textiles and clothing industries are to "become more competitive vis-a-vis non-Community countries they must embark on a special research and innovation drive in orders
, to improve productivity fay making innovations in their production procedures and organization;
. to bring new products onto the market , either' using new materials or incorporating new designs , w'nereever it is v. question of producing
finished articles to suit the potential customers*s taste as far as possible.
The industry has all the more incentive for making the technological research and creative effort demanded of it since it already holds a number of important assets, e.g. the current level of technology, knowledge of
the way of life of its major clients and creative potential.
- However, not all undertakings are able to put sufficient funds and resources into research and development "by themselves, least of all in the clothing sector.
Consequently, research in the textile and clothing sector tends to take the form of joint research, whether private or public, with national research being given precedence over Community work.
The main aims of the Community programme should be:
. to improve and to widen the circulation of the results obtained by the national programmes ;
. to improve coordination betitfeen the various research programmes under way in the Community in order to avoid duplication and omissions
and thereby increase their effectiveness .
 A number of research topics are of general interest and would warrant Community action provided the following conditions were satisfied :
. active collaboration "by the industry itself, including a contribution towards costs ;
, direct or potential interest for a large number of undertakings in different regions of the Community;
. high probability of preferential use of the results by the Community's industry.
- The Community has already completed one research programme , which concentrated on textiles alone. In order to follow up and supplement that work, the Commission
has drafted a second multi-annual research programme covering specific points concerning clothing and various major branches of the textiles industry. Technical examination of the draft is nov; complete, and a political decision is pending.
- Advanced technology has yet to penetrate the clothing in/hi~V<y , where automation
is still virtually unknown. However, one sweeping change ir- production methods as a result {f automation could considerably reduce the cost disadvantage under which the Community's industry operates as compared with its competitors in the developing countries .
Following an initiative by the Commission, technological development projets have been identified which could be of the greatest benefit to the Community's clothing industry, provided that Corjmnity support supplies the necessary catalyst. The
Commission wi 11 make every effort to give that support .
The Community 's attitude towards industrialized countries
which supply textiles and clothing is coloured by the fact
that , on the whole , those countries produce their goods and compete under similar conditions to the Community and also
that the Community has an overall trade surplus with them.
The main action to be taken is therefore to combat unfair trading practices and artificial distortion of the conditions of production and / or competition . The various anti-dumping measures taken by the Community and the action on energy
costs in the USA prove that a resolute approach by the Com­ munity can yield positive results .
Irngorts_from_low-cost_countrjes
The Multifibre Arrangement (MFA), the legal basis governing world trade in textiles , is due to expire on 31 December 1981 . The Community has said that before the present MFA expires further special arrangements will have to be envisaged for trade in textiles . In the current economic climate , it will not be possible , after 1981 , to return to a system covering trade with these countries governed by GATT rules alone.
T his decision is based on the view that , given the current
state of the world textiles market, the economic situation
in the Community as a whole and the situation of the Community's textile and clothing industry in particular, it would be unacceptable from both the social and economic points of view
to abandon the current system of import quotas on low cost products .
 In view of the current international situation, the Commission has put two specific proposals to the Council, one on the informal preferential arrangements with specific countries , which are due to expire later this year, and the other on
the renewal of the MFA .
The Commission has adopted a new approach to countries receiving preferential treatment, in an effort to strike a better balance between the objectives of the preferential arrangements and the aims of the Community 's textiles policy . The proposal is now before the Council .
The Commission's second proposal concerns supplier countries with low production costs ( MFA ). It contains basic guide­
lines for a renewed version of the MFA which is to serve as the legal basis for renegotiating the bilateral textiles arrange­
ments when they expire in 1982 .
The Commission recommends that exports from low-cost supplier countries should increase at different rates, depending on
how developed the country is and on the sensitivity of the products concerned . This principle would make it possible to stabilize imports from these more advanced suppliers and grant more favourable treatment to less developed suppliers .
 The Commission has made separate proposaIs for coun­
tries that receive preferential treatment on the hand and for MFA countries on the other since the legal and political ties between these two groups and the Community are so different that it would not be feasible to apply the same system to both . NevertheIess, this does not mean that the Community's policy should not still be based on a comprehensive approach, covering all imports from all countries with low production costs.
The Community is on the receiving end of a proportionally
higher proportion of exports from low-cost and developing countries compared with the other major industrialized countries.
This state of affairs entitles it to expect a smaller increase in these imports compared with certain other industrialized countries, and should also lead it to seek better access to certain non-Community markets.
 4.3 Commum ty exports
The trend in exports is by no means the same as the trend in imports, since exports have increased only slightly since 1977
and the trade deficit has constantly grown in both volume and value terms .
The Community must endeavour to remove or reduce the prohibitive import barriers now in existence, particularly those in respect of the most advanced developing countries and those whose home markets constitute major potential outlets. The same applies to the State-trading countries, with which a better trading balance should be sought. The Community must keep a watchful eye for any further customs barriers, such as import duties on decora­ tive clothing in the United States, that might be introduced by the industrialized countries, which all have higher customs tariffs than the EEC but whose markets represent - and will continue to represent for the foreseeable future - the main outlet for the Community industry .
Lastly, exports should be encouraged by means of joint efforts by the industry and the Community and national authorities.
The gathering and circulation of information on the quantitative and qualitative development of non-Community markets and the marketing conditions in the countries concerned would be of particular benefit to small and medium-sized firms unable to
do their own market research .
In accordance with its proposal to UNCTAD, the Community has maintained generalized tariff preferences since 1971, notably for finished and semi - fi ni shed industrial products from developing countries, with a view to improving access by the latter to markets in the preference-granting coun­ tries ; most of these , however , exclude textiles from prefe­ rential treatment .
As the system is autonomous, it is flexible enough to cope with the different economic situations that can arise, with the result that any unfavourable situations to which applying the system may give rise can be rectified.
In respect of products covered by the Multifibre Arrangement,
the Community has maintained since 1980 for products from which have signed bilateral priate, from those which are commitments with the Community .
preferences ( duty free quotas ) the countries and territories agreements or, where appro­ prepared to enter into similar
For products outside the Multifibre Arrangement, preferences are granted to all those countries and territories which normally benefit in respect of other industries.
The Commission considers that the autonomous nature of conces­ sions which may be granted under the S.G.P. may constitute - in some cases - a useful instrument in the broader framework of improving the commercial relations of the Community with certain partners. The Commission considers that the conces­ sions made under the S.G.P. should allow improved bilateral commercial relations with developing countries .
It should be remembred that , with the current system , different amounts have already been granted to the beneficiary countries depending on their development status and that the quantities imported under the present system may not exceed 13 % of total imports coming from the beneficiary countries .
Outward processing must be considered a preferred instrument of industrial cooperation which, whilts helping the developing countries to industrialize, allows the Community industry
- by carrying out some of its activities under its own con­ trol in countries with low unit costs" to achieve greater competitiveness through the device of cost equalization. This type of operation may be regarded therefore as helping to main­ tain the level of activity of the Community textile industry
and to safeguard jobs .
Outward processing should also considerably encourage Commu­ nity exports of semi-finished products (notably cloth).
However, if the Community is fully to enjoy these theoretical advantages, it must overcome a number of obstacles associated primarily with internal and external differences in industrial practice and market situation .
The internal disparities derive chiefly from the considerable variations in outward processing practice in extent and even conception in the Member S t a t e s . The Federal Republic of
Germany has been using outward processing for many years to provide massive encouragement for its own industry, while
other Member States such as the United Kingdom and Italy make very little use of it , and still others , notably the Netherlands , use it not at all in an industrial policy context, but simply
The s^ale of outward processing also varies considerably
from one product to the next. It is particularly common in
the clothing sector . In the Benelux , for instance , the out­ ward processing of suits and costumes represents 50 % of total imports and 39 % of production. In the Federal Republic of Germany the figures are only 27 % and 14 X respectively (about the same proportion as exists for dresses), and in France
39.6 % and 5.3 %.
 The external differences are found mainly in the developing count r i es .
The relative incidence of outward processing varies considerably from one geographical region to the next . At the moment it is concentrated for the most part in the state-trading countries
and the Mediterranean region, although there are indications that it occurs and is likely to grow in certain Asian supplier count ri es .
The main objective of Community policy with regard to outward processing must therefore be to ensure gradual convergence with a view to reestablishing some internal and external cohesion.
Internally , convergence must make it possible , by means of harmo­ nizing arrangements and ensuring transparency of operations, to eliminate the intra-Community barriers which arise directly out of current differences regarding outward processing and thus to organize the free movement of goods on a sounder basis .
Externally, the diverse nature of the geographical regions
where outward processing operations are conducted must allow out­ ward processing to become to a greater degree than hitherto a fully-fledged instrument of commercial policy, reshaping our external trade to suit the interests of the Community industry better, without however harming the development efforts of the supplier countries , especially minority or potential suppliers .
This objective can be fully realized only if the scheme which
is introduced allows full control of the growth of such traffic, both as to management and as to the criteria by which access
to the outward processing arrangements is accorded.
 5. Employment and social and regional aspects
Between 1973 and 1980 the textile and clothing industry lost more than 800,000 jobs . Nevertheless , taking account of international and domestic competition and the stagnation in demand, it is inevitable, even if imports remain at fixed levels, that the industry will continue to lose jobs for many years to come and at a similar rate to today's. Such a situation is inconceivable without accompanying measures to mitigate its effects.
In the current economic situation, an annual loss of 110,000 - 120,000
jobs creates very serious economic and social problems , since , contrary to earlier experience, an economy in recession can no longer absorb the re­ dundant labour. This phenomenon is greater in regions where the industrial structure is weak and where the rate of unemployment is already very high; new and significant job Losses will have intolerable social consequences,
since certain specific localities and considerable sections of the female workforce are affected .
In addition, there is the growing problem of lay-offs and short-time working. By the end of 1980, there were approximately 140,000 workers in the textile and clothing industry thus affected. As a result, it may perhaps necessary
to apply in textiles and clothing measures similar to those the Commission put forward to combat lay-offs in the steel industry.
In the circumstances, it will be difficult to maintain the necessary rate of adjustment in this sector, and this may entail the risk of resorting to exces­ sive protectionism or to unacceptable levels of state aid. The instruments for converting the textile industry and retraining textile workers at national and Community level must therefore be strengthened, and a special effort must be made to bring about the requisite reduction in the number of workers in
the textile industry after consultation with both sides of industry. The success of the specific measures for the textile industry will depend to a
 Large extent, however, on a combination of initiatives aimed at creating stable alternative employment in the areas concerned . At Community level , the Regional and Social Funds have a particularly important role to play both as regards the sectoral measures and as regards the borader measures with a view to promoting regional economic development and creating jobs.
The European Social Fund's contribution with regard to textile workers amounted to 21.6 MUA in 1978 (13,500 workers assisted), 14.6 MUA in 1979
(15,500) and 18.9 MUA in 1980 (17,500). Assistance was given both to the retraining of workers leaving the textile and clothing industry and to the further training of workers remaining in viable sectors of the industry.
So far the European Social Fund has assisted an estimated 10% of the workers leaving the textile industry . The Fund 's budget for the textile industry amounted to 13 MUA in 1981, a figure which may be substantially increased
by refunds from previous years. Applications for aid in respect of 1981 are of the order of 36 MUA. The gap between the budgetary resources avai­ lable and the total aid requested has meant that Fund aid has been devoted
mainly to regions with high unemployment (workers who leave their jobs)
and to vocational training measures under the conversion and restructuring programmes (workers who keep their jobs). The Commission has proposed a budget of 25 MUA for 1982. This is certainly a significant increase, but
in order to meet future demand, the resources of the Fund in this particular field would have to be increased by a factor of three or four, if all the applications submitted were to be granted in full.
 Irrespective of whether or not a specific category of intervention in favour of the textile industry is maintained after the forthcoming revi­ sion of the Social Fund, it will clearly be necessary to make adequate provision for training the considerable numbers of workers who will continue to leave the industry. At the same time, training schemes for workers who stay in the textile industry should continue to be supported by the Community in all cases where :
- the level of training reached by the workers concerned has been signifi­ cantly and substantially improved ;
- the professional specialisations and qualifications thus acquired meet a real or foreseeable need for highly-qualified employees in viable sectors of the economy .
The authorities in the Member States responsible for vocational training
in the industry should revise the structure and content of present training programmes with this in mind .
The European Regional Development Fund was set up in 1975 to help correct the main imbalances in the Community. Together with the Member States it finances productive investment in industry, crafts and services with a view to creating or maintaining jobs, and infrastructure investment which will
From 1975 to and clothing sector jobs )
the region or zone where those imbalances occur.
1980 ERDF aid (quota section) to all regions where the textile industry plays an important role (more than 10% of secondary amounted to 800 mEUA .
The labour force in the textile and clothing industry is relatively immobile, and restructuring those industries is economically and socially possible for the regions in question only if new activities provide other jobs for the workers released .
By promoting the creation, development and maintenance of sound economic activities and supporting them with improved infrastructure arrangements, the Community regional policy will facilitate the necessary restructuring. The quota section of the ERDF will continue to finance those operations which meet the relevant criteria. Specific Community regional development measures, co-financed by the non-quota section and the Member States concerned, could be considered for the textile regions worst affected by the crisis and could be drawn up in parallel to the negotiiions on the Multifibre Arrangement.
 5.4 Other_ac12on_2Q_the_fi^eL^d_of_emgl^o^ment
Many aspects of the broader Community strategy designed to promote employ­ ment which have already been discussed by the Standing Committee on Employment and the joint meeting of Ministers for Economic Affairs, Finance and Social Affairs have a particular bearing on the measures to reorganize the textile industry .
The measures in question include action to achieve greater labour market flexibility and mobility thanks to future-oriented management policies at local employment marked level, greater social flexibility and retirement- related measures .
Particular attention must be paid to the need to encourage innovation and stimulate job-creation, especially in small businesses and cooperatives
which are in a position to exploit the local economic potential and offer jobs to workers forced to leave sectors such as textiles. The revision of the Social and Regional Funds will provide the Community with the opportunity for assessing the extent to which the role of its financial instruments might be strengthened in this connection .
In view of the present economic situation in the Community and the world as a whole it is essential that the Community define the objectives and instruments of its industrial policy with more precision. This definition must take full account of the need for the
Community's industry:to ensure that it is competitive world-wide.
This is certainly true of the textile and clothing industry, where there is a very obvious need for restructuring because of the pressures of competition on the industry and the social and regional problems created by ths large scale loss of employment in the industry.
The fact that the Community has to take decisions regarding the renegotiation of the MFA, trade with preferential countries and out­ ward processing arrangements underlines the correctness and time­ liness of a general review of this sector.
In keeping with the strategy it has devised for other industries,
the Commission prefers to examine the problems of the textile and
clothing sector in a much wider framework consistent with an overall
and uniform approach to the problems of Community industry rather
than in a solely sectoral context or one which requires specific measures.
The reason it wishes to do this is that there are several problems in the textile and clothing sector, some of which are extremely pressing, which also affect other industrial sectors to varying degrees and hence can be solved only by multi-sectoral economic and industrial policies .
A careful watch must be kept on the application to this sector of the various horizontal policies, to see how they interact, if the inter­
nal consistency essential for these measures to be effective is to be ensured .
 This is particularly necessary because these measures require the parti­ cipation of all the parties concerned : the Community, the Member States, and both sides of industry .
3. Although this need for consistency must be borne in mind, we must also avoid the temptation of applying linear analyses and solutions to the entire Community textile and clothing sector .
industry makes a contribution -
which
Any measures which are taken must make due allowance for the structural differences which exist from one region to another within the Community and the increasing differences between sub-sectors of the textile and clothing industry .
Furthermore, there are some problems which are more serious or acute in
the textile / clothing pressure of outside
sector than in other industries , competition , stagnation in demand
eg . loss of jobs ,
The textile / clothing
declined but is still substantial - to the Community economy in
terms of employment, added value and exports, and is a part of the industrial fabric in which the interdependence between sectors is crucial .
In view of its economic importance and the extremely marked decline
in the possibilities of conversion to other activities, the Commission considers that the textile and clothing sector's important position
in the Community economy must be preserved.
Given the close interdependence between the sub-sectors of this industry
the Commission also considers it desirable that all the major stages of
the textile / clothing production chain should be maintained in the Community .
Finally, considering that there has been a necessary increase in producti­ vity which will itself cause a considerable loss of jobs, the Commission holds that a concerted effort by the economic sector should not continue to decline in real value terms below its present level.
 5. This objective can, however, only be achieved by means of radical, continuous adaptation and restructuring by companies themselves, with the support of the Community and Member States, mainly by the pro­ vision of a healthy economic environment for industrial development.
6. This environment consists in thefirst place of the economic reality of the Community, the second largest world market for textile and clothing products after the United States.
If firms are to draw the maximum profit from the sheer size of this market, it must operate as a single unit; barriers to trade between Member States, of whatever kind, must be avoided or eliminated.
Similarly, the Community must preserve the conditions of real competi­
tion within the Community and thus allow the most efficient firms to benefit from their structural, technological or commercial advantages.This
means that at Community level that there must be a well-defined, consistent and selective approach to State aids covering all aids granted to the textile and clothing industry whatever their main purpose. This approach
must allow for a progressive reduction of the aids in step with the progress in competitiveness.
7. The Community must take incentive measures and structural adjustment must also centre on more specific problems .
The investment which over the last few years has already made possible large-scale re-equipping of the textile industry must be reinforced by a capital cost policy which will create the right investment climate and ensure a satisfactory return.
 The return will also be improved by eliminating the obstacles which may prevent optimum utilization of equipment in the Member States.
Investment will make a more effective contribution to improving the competitivieness of Community industries if it can make use of the benefits of geater recourse to research and innovation .
At a different level, the Commission believes it would be particularly use­ ful to ensure consistency between the objectives and interests of
distributors and manufacturers . The position of manufacturers , and of small-sized businesses in particular, could be improved - especially as regards their commercial management - by greater cooperation between firmsiwhile observing the n/ les of competition .
Finally, one vital way in which firms' restructuring efforts could be strengthened and the public authorities assisted in defining their strategies under optimum conditions is to improve the
system of collecting and disseminating economic data (market and structural information ).
Community policy on relations and trade with its outside competitors
must cover a number of equally important aspects which should be consistent and complementary : imports from low-cost countries, relations
with industrialized competitors , better access to non-Community markets , inclusion of outward processing in dealings with non-member countries .
 In view of the general economic situation, the particular problems of the textile/clothing industry and redundancies in particular, and the fact
that the Community is already by far the largest customer for textile and clothing exports from the low-cost countries, the Community should adopt an overall approach to these countries in order to back up the efforts to reorganize the textile and clothing industry in the Community, so as to mitigate the economic and social consequences of a disorderly expansion of imports .
As regards its industrialized competitors the Community not only needs to improve the competitiveness of its industry but must also keep a close watch on any practices which might artificially alter conditions of compe­ tition as regards exports and imports .
Action must be taken with regard to exports. The main question here is the opening-up of markets in all non-Community countries, including certain indus­ trializing developing countries, to competitive products from the Community complementary to these countries * products . This question does in fact , figure in the negotiations on the renewal of the MFA.
Outward processing is above all a form of industrial cooperation which enables maximum benefit to be made from the comparative advantages of the partners involved. Although the Commission recognizes the economic advantages of outward processing it considers that there is a need for Community rules to allow an economically sound development of outward processing . In effect , it is essential to ensure that the development of outward processing converges from one Member State to another .
 The most disturbing aspect of the problems in the textile and clothing industry is undoubtedly employment. The number of redun­ dancies over the last decade has been very high. In addition to the direct effect of imports displacing Community production, there
is every sign that the increase in average productivity resulting from improvements in production technology, the disappearance
of less productive firms and constant pressure of imports will
lead to further large-scale redundancies in the future.
The Community will therefore have to find more funds for restructuring and conversion and take stronger measures both in and outside the textile and clothing sector . Clearly , if the situation evolves as predicted there will be much greater need for conversion outside the textile and clothing industry .
A more active policy designed to create stable employment is needed in order to back up the conversion process . The Social Fund - particularly after it has been reviewed - will have an important role to play in this horizontal policy, and as a result of its sectoral intervention for which its resources cannot stretch to meet the growing demand.
Where the Regional Fund is concerned, it would seem to be appropriate to promote measures (particularly in the context of the non-quota section) to help regions in which the textile and clothing industry is or was of decisive importance .
In addition to making more funds available, it is important that greater selectivity should be encouraged in the choice of new activities for which workers should be retrained and redeployed .
 10. Both sides of industry will be closely involved at all levels in the implementation of this approach and the positive adjustment measures which will ensue where the industry is concerned. They have a major role to play at Community level by helping to monitor the economic and social impact of the conversion measures and by playing a full part in creating the necessary social consensus without which no structural adaptation policy can succeed.
11. If the Community is to try, in a realistic manner, to maintain the present potential and level of activity of its textile and clothing industry, all the policies relating to these various aspects should help - in conjunction with the required restructuring - to create an economic framework in which the textile and clothing industry in the Community can once again become competitive and , as a result , maintain a potential and a level of activity not too different (in value terms) from at present .
The man-made fibre sector is an extension of the chemical industry, using chemical polymers or regenerated cellulose to produce man-made fibres.
There are two broad product groups :
a) artificial fibres produced from regenerated cellulose, and principally consisting of viscose or acetate rayon ;
b) synthetic fibres produced from hydrocarbon polymers. There are three main groups - polyamide ( nylon ), polyester and polyacry I i cs .
Both artificial and synthetic fibres can be produced either in continuous filament ( silk-like ) form or cut to the appropriate length for spinning (mostly in blends with other fibres) on the traditional cotton or wool spinning systems. Acrylic fibres are not normally produced in continuous filament form. Nylon is mainly used in filament form. Rayon accounts for 15% and synthetic fibres for 50% of total fibres used in the textile indus­ tries of the Community (excluding minor fibres like silk and flax).
The sector is highly capital-intensive , like the chemical industry , and is dominated by 13 large companies accounting for 90% of Community production. The value added per head is very high and plants are highly automated. The major technological developments in rayon took place in the 1930s, and in synthetics during the 1950-1970 period. It is difficult to foresee major technical changes in the future because of the massive investment required and the current lack of profitability.
Although highly capital intensive the sector nevertheless employs some 100,000 people , many highly qualified technicians . There is no strong regional concentration although most plants are within easy reach of their principal textile consuming industries.
The explosive growth in demand for synthetic fibres between 1950 and 1970 coupled with rapid technological change led to massive capacity increases
in the Community (and in other developed countries). This in turn had a depressing effect on demand for rayon. As the rate of growth fell, aggra­ vated by the contraction of the Community textile industry, so major over­ capacity appeared , especially since 1974 . Substantial reductions have taken place but the problem is not entirely resolved.
A further problem has been the cost advantages enjoyed by the Community's principal competitor , the U.S.A. , in energy and in feedstocks (oil - and gas- based). During 1980 this cost advantage was increased by the relative weak­ ness of the dollar . This problem is less acute in 1981 .
Despite the problems and despite the fact that in many overseas markets prices are forced to very low levels by weak selling at marginal prices, the Community maintains an overall trade balance in man-made fibres.
Figures in brackets are estimates
Natural fibres (principally cotton and wool) are washed, combed or carded and spun into a yarn. Man-made fibres cut to a suitable length are also processed , often as blends , on cotton or wool spinning equipment . Combing is only of major importance in the wool sector, where the intermediate product, tops, are used for producing fine worsted yarns for high quality cloths .
Principally cotton, wool, acrylic, polyester/cotton, polyester/wool and polyester / viscose yarns . In the wool system the yarn (or tops or fibre )
are usually dyed. In the cotton system dyeing is carried out mainly at the fabric stage and the yarns are usually white. Some man-made fibres are produced in coloured form as fibre. In the wool industry very large amounts of recovered fibre are used. Although more cotton than wool is consumed in the Community spinning sector, rather more man-made fibres are processed on the wool system than on the cotton system. In consequence the total output of wool-system spinning is almost as great as that of cotton spinning.
Spinning was the original industrial textile process and has always been relatively capital-intensive. This tendency has increased as modern techno­ logy has produced faster and more automatic carding, combing and spinning equipment. A tendency since 1950 has been for spinning to be increasingly integrated with weaving ( less commonly with knitting ). Firms are generally medium to large. Most small spinners apart from highly specialised producers have been eliminated by competition both from within and from outside the Community .
Approximately 260,000 people are employed in the Community spinning industry. The figure is not particularly significant because of the prevalence of inte­ grated spinning / weaving companies within which the allocation of management staff is necessarily arbitrary .
Because spinning was the original industrial textile process it has always been located close to the principal early source of power - coal. Recent attempts to break away from this pattern have not always been successful and the bulk of the sector is still concentrated in areas of industrial
Although capital-intensive, spinning is subject to severe competition from low-cost sources particularly where these are protected or subsidised in
newly industrialising countries. In some cases access to indigenous cotton is also an advantage, but this does not apply to wool or man-made fibres. The decline in weaving and knitting in the Community in recent years has reduced the demand for Community spun yarns. Since 1950 too there has been increasing use of filament yarns of man-made fibres, not only in stockings and socks but also in a wide variety of other garments and above all in carpets and in industrial textiles . This too has reduced the demand for spun yarns .
The Community has had a trade deficit on spun yarns in recent years. The principal imports are in cotton yarns and the major sources have been Turkey and Greece. Now that Greece is a member of the Community this deficit on external trade will be reduced by approximately a quarter. Spain and Portugal are also large suppliers, but the principal source of cotton yarn remains Turkey .
Figures in brackets are estimated
Weaving is the principal fabric-forming process. Most of the yarns used
are spun yarns from the spinning process but increasingly since 1950 continuous filament yarns have been used. These have usually been twisted or bulked
either by the man-made fibre producers themselves or by specialist "throwsters".
Woven fabrics range from light weight voiles for scarves to the heaviest canvas for industrial purposes, including specialised fabrics for car tyres and circular woven fabrics for fire hoses . Carpets , including tufted carpets , are produced by a separate sub-sector employing similar basic techniques. Clothing is the principal end-use. Products requiring very little making-up
( sheets , handkerchiefs , curtains , household textiles ) are also mainly produced by the weavers themselves. There is also direct sale of fabrics by the metre to the consumer for home dressmaking or furnishings.
Although it is technically possible to operate small plants, the tendency is for increasingly larger plants to be necessary in order to remain competitive.
This is because modern looms are usually automatic and require less supervision . The sector is , therefore , capital intensive . Cottage persist in Italy (Prato) and Greece (Attica) and on a smaller scale Scotland and Ireland .
Integration with spinning has become more common since 1950 but many medium to large horizontal weavers still exist. Some weavers also possess their own finishing , dyeing and printing facilities .
About 450,000 people work in weaving. This is approximate, because of the integration in some cases with spinning and or finishing. Employment as a whole has been substantially reduced by the use of modern automatic high speed wide looms . About 70% of employees are women . Most weaving , like spinning, is associated with older industrial areas.
Although weaving is capital-intensive , competition from low-cost countries , sometimes subsidised, has been a major problem. 73% of imports of cotton cloth came from low-cost countries in 1979. But during 1979 the U.S. mounted a major export offensive in textiles and substantially increased their sales of woven products , including carpets and bed-linen . Towards the second half of 1980 this offensive began to weaken as the dollar strengthened, but the
US remains a potential threat with its large-scale plant and high technology and is among the leading suppliers to the Community in several woven products. There is no serious import problem in wool-type cloths.
The growing popularity of knitted fabrics has had an adverse effect on the de­ mand for woven fabrics, as well as the general stagnation or fall in clothing production. Non-woven cloths have also made some inroads into traditional woven cloths in industrial and household textiles.
In value terms the Community still has a positive balance in woven cloth, but it has declined in recent years. Exports mainly consist of finished fabrics or of wool fabrics, both of relatively high value, whereas imports contain a high proportion of unfinished cotton cloth. Imports of cloths and made-up articles from all low-cost countries are under quota. In volume terms there
is a substantial and growing deficit .
Production and trade figures exclude carpets and pile fabrics. Figures in brackets are estimated .
Knitting is the second most important fabric producing process after weaving. The needles are either mounted in circles, or in a flat row. The speed of production of knitting machines usually exceeds that of looms.
Circular knitting can produce complete garments such as socks or stockings (with the simple addition of a final seam in the toe) or simple tubes for
making undervests or 'T' shirts. Flat machines produce either shaped fabric pieces to be sewn together to make pullovers, or fabric capable of being cut, like woven fabric, and used in the clothing industry. A special variation on
this is warp-knitted fabric which has the dimensional stability of woven fabric . Some knitwear companies , notably in lingerie , produce their own cut and sewn garments; others sell to the clothing industry. The border line between the two is , therefore , imprecise .
Both spun and filament yarn can be used in knitwear, but not on all types of machinery .
Knitwear combines elements of textiles and clothing. Some operations can be highly labour intensive - making pullovers; others like warp-knitting are highly capital intensive . Companies , therefore , vary widely in size and structure, but there are very few very large companies. There was considerable technical innovation in the 1950s and 1960s partly stimulated by the arrival of synthetic filament yarns, but the main impetus of this would now seem to be over .
Total employment amounts to some 450,000 people. There are some strong regional concentrations, but the industry is more scattered than spinning or weaving and is not particularly associated with the older industrial areas.
Being mostly relatively small, knitwear companies are often in a weak bargai­ ning position in relation to their customers the retailers . Many knitwear firms have built up strong brand-names which help to maintain customer loyalty. Since 1950 the greater comfort and less formal appearance of knitted garments have contributed towards a more buoyant demand for knitwear. In some cases
the rapid increase in demand has led to overcapacity (tights), although in a sector with so many small firms the concept of capacity is not of great signi­ ficance. The continued trend towards informal leisure wear is likely to favour knitwear as opposed to traditional garments. Most of the benefit from this growth has, however, gone to external suppliers rather than to the Community industry .
The Community is a substantial exporter of knitwear. Italian fashion and the classic knitwear of Scotland have a wide international reputation . But low-cost imports in more standard products such as socks, 'T' shirts etc. have grown at
a considerable rate in recent years. The deficit on knitted products increased by 74% between 1977 and 1979 from 595 million EUA to 1,036 million EUA. The main knitted articles of clothing are under quota from low-cost sources.
The clothing industry takes woven or knitted cloth, cuts it and sews together the pieces to make garments . It is the cutting which distinguishes it from the knitting industry . In essence it remains an artisan operation , and although in large plants many hundreds of people (mainly women) work side by side, it is not a typical industrial operation. It is still essentially a woman with a sewing machine, even if the total operation is broken down into small repetitive components .
The products cover all types of clothing from casual wear to haute couture. STRUCTURE
Because of its artisanal nature the small firm is typical and the large firm rare . Even large firms may have modest-sized plants . Below the firms considered industrial (20 or more employees) there are large numbers of work­ shops .
Added value per head is among the lowest of all industrial sectors. Conse­ quently wages are low, and this is undoubtedly related to the very high proportion of women employees and, in some large cities, the employment of immigrants. The bargaining power of clothing companies is generally very weak compared with that of their retail customers. The scope for research, marketing and investment is very limited in most firms .
Nearly 1,000,000 people are employed in firms with 20 or more employees. The number in smaller establishments is not known. There appears to be no strong regional concentration except in one or two major urban centres. Where these are flourishing, the clothing industry of necessity employs the poorest and often least skilled workers .
Demand for clothing is rising at barely 1% per annum. This, coupled with rapidly increasing imports has put considerable pressure on Community companies to improve productivity, and in recent years this has increased by 3.5% p.a.. For many standard products where fashion is not the key element, Community companies cannot compete with wages which may be only one-tenth of those in
the Community. Market penetration by low-cost imports exceeds 40% in some key
products, and in some Member States exceeds 60%.
Outward processing is seen as a necessity by some companies for survival, but others, and the employees as a whole, do not find it an acceptable solution.
In some developing countries excessive financial incentives constitute a fur­ ther advantage to add to the low wages. Many developing countries' markets are closed to Community products.
The overall trade deficit has increased from 1,106 million EUA in 1975 to 2,246 million EUA in 1979 . The Community is , however , competitive with other developed countries. All the main garments are under quota from the principal
The dyeing, printing, bleaching and stabilising of yarns and fabric is the function of specialist finishers. These may be independent or work within large integrated companies. Closely associated with the finishing sector are the merchant convertors who are important in the cotton weaving sector. These merchants order cloth to be made to their own specification, or import grey (unprinted) cloth and then print or dye to their own designs. They may own no capital and have no factories, but create added value by causing work to be done. The extent of their activities cannot be deter­ mined from statistical sources, but they undoubtedly play a major role in
There is however,
no product strictly speaking, merely an added value, which may, be very considerable.
The structure is extremely diverse. There are commission finishers who execute the orders of others but who do not own the goods being processed; there are independent companies who buy, process and resell the goods; and there are companies within larger groups who may also carry out outside commission work . The average size of firms is relatively small .
Total employment is 153,000. For the most part the industry is located adjacent to the spinning, weaving and knitting industries they are designed to serve .
The finishing sector is Largely dependent on the Level of activity in the textile industry , or in converting . Most finishing processes involve high energy consumption and / or chemical treatment . Pollution is , therefore , a major problem. Since the cost of energy and pollution legislation vary considerably between Member States, there is considerable distortion of competitive conditions within the Community. External competitors may benefit from the virtual absence of any pollution legislation.
The value added by i imshing may be considerable, but it is clearly impossible to identify it in the yarn and cloth entering into trade. The trade balance
is , therefore , not capable of being calculated for this sector . The Community imports much more grey cloth for finishing than it exports but this merely reflects the fact that most finishing is carried out near to the final market. It does not imply either a positive trade balance or a competitive advantage compared with external sources .
Ireland and
Source : response to the GATT Textiles Questionnaire and ElJROSTAT.
1) Only enterprises of 20 or more employees included, 2 ) Subject to slight revision .
Texti les · Clothing
Consumption Clothing
1. Age of installed cotton-spinning equipment in the Community and some non-member countries in 1977
Communi ty of Nine
Less than 5 years
5 and 10
number of
Percentage of total number per age category
The percentage of equipment less than five years old was between 5 and 10* for the largest manufacturers in the Community.
10 and 20
20 years old
The International Textile Manufacturers Association (ITMF) has supplied details of cotton spinning and weaving equipment supplies for the majority of the manufacturers for the period 1974-79 and the number of machines. The ratio of supplies to number of installed machines gives an idea of
the degree of modernization. It should also be noted that, since it is calculated on the basis of the number of machines, this indicator gives
a lower figure than is true in reality because a modern loom is much
more productive than the older looms which have been withdrawn from
of which I
0,862 at least
No details are available for supplies from Western Europe, America, Asia and Czechoslovakia. Ring equipment manufactured by state-trading countries for their own account is hence not included. In reality the number of ring spindles is higher .
In the following table the number of shuttle weaving looms installed in 1978 is used as a basis of reference and the number of new looms ( shuttle and shuttleless ) installed between 1974 and 1979 given .
The "rate of replacement" concerns shuttle looms only.
The " technological level " is defined as the ratio of total shuttleless
looms to the total number of looms (it should be noted that the largest number of shuttleless looms was installed after 1974).
Only the number of advanced technology machines supplied by Western
of which Β
( thousand )
Shutt leles ( thousand )
( thousand )
or Czechoslovakia to Comecon is known ( Open-end shuttleless weaving loom).
Countries covered by the texti le trade policy
841 or 84 less 848 : Articles of clothing
841 or 84 less 848 : Articles of clothing
* These two data diverge from the general trend. They could be the result of a factual error.
841 or 84 Less 848 ; Art i c les of clothing
841 or 84 less 848 • Articles of clothing
Imports of textile products into the Community by processing stages
Description of products
. Primary products
. Woven clothing
. Knitted clothing
INDUSTRIALISED COUNTRIES Primary products
Woven clothing Knitted clothing Carpets
 Description of products
. Primary products . Yarns
. Woven clothing
. Knitted clothing
The areas referred to are the basic administrative units used for Community purposes (Regierungsbezirk in Germany, Standard Regions in the United Kingdom, Regions de programme in France, Regione in Italy, etc.).
*Including an estimate of jobs in small businesses employing between 1 and 20 people, and in particular an evaluation of "dicentramento produttivo" in Italy .
Page 7; Last Line but two : for "woman" read women
Page 12; third § Line 2 : for "yarn of fabrics" read yarn or fabrics Page 17; fourth § Line 2 : for "clothes" read clothing
Page 33; seventh Line from bottom of page :
for in recent months or specific " read .... in recent months) or specific
Page 34; Line 1 : for toindicating read to indicating
after " solely for " add Community products : for "preferential countries ."
read preferential countries). Article 115 is still : deLete "their" at the end of this line
for"borader measures " read broader measures
Page 59; delete the Last two Lines at the foot of this page and replace by : holds that a concerted effort by the economic operators ought to be made : activity in the textile and clothing sector should not continue to decline , in real value terms , below its present level .
Konkur renc en_02_of f ent ^22_st 0t t e
Enhed ton
