 Hot rolled alloy sheet and strip
Cold rolled alloy sheet
Hot rolled alloy bar
Alloy coated sheet and terne sheet and plate
Hot rolled sheet and strip 6,81
Cold rolled sheet
Structural shapes 9,91 Hot rolled bar
Coated sheet 3,27 Sheet piling 21,85 Stainless steel sheet, strip and plate 4,08
" Consultations shall be held at any time at the request of either the EC or the US, to discuss any matters, including trends in the importation of steel products, which impair or threaten to impair the attainment of the objectives of this Arrangement.
In particular, consultations will be held in the event that imports from the EC of covered alloy products and of products not covered by the Arrangement show a significant increase indicating the possibility of diversion of trade from carbon to alloy products or from the categories covered in the Arrangement to those not covered. Should these consultations demonstrate that there has indeed been a diversion of trade which is such as to impair the attainment of the objectives
of the Arrangement, then within sixty days both sides will take the necessary measures with respect to the products concerned in order to prevent such diversion, including the creation of separate categories under the Arrangement
Consultations will imports from third
also be held if there are indications that
countries are replacing EC imports.
dernières années .
sheet and strip", "cold rolled sheet", wstructuralsw, "plate" und
Hot rolled alloy sheet and strip Cold rolled alloy sheet
Hot rolled alloy bar
Alloy coated sheet and terne sheet and plate
Hot rolled sheet and strip 6,81
Cold rolled sheet
Hot rolled bar 2,38 Rail 8,90
Coated sheet 3,2? Sheet piling 21,85 Stainless steel sheet, strip and plate if,o8
" Consultations shall be held at any time at the request of either the EC or the US, to discuss any matters, including trends in the importation of steel products, which impair or threaten to impair the attainment of the objectives of this Arrangement .
In particular, consultations will be held in the event that iaports from the £C of covered alloy products and of products not covered by the Arrangement show a significant increase indicating the possibility of diversion of trade from carbon to alloy products or from the categories covered in the
Arrangement to those not covered. Should these consultations demonstrate that there has indeed been a diversion of trade
which is such as to impair the attainment of the objectives of the Arrangement , then within sixty days both sides will take the necessary measures with respect to the products concerned in order to prevent such diversion, including the creation of separate categories under the Arrangement for alloy products at 1981 levels.
Consultations will also be held if there are indications that imports from third countries are replacing EC imports. n
Hot rolled alloy sheet and strip
Cold rolled alloy sheet
Hot rolled alloy bar
Alloy coated sheet and tern sheet and plate
Hot rolled sheet and strip
Cold rolled sheet
Structural shapes Hot rolled bar
21,85 and plate 4,08
Coated sheet Sheet piling Stainless steel
"Consultations shall be held at any time at the request of either the EC or the US, to discuss any matters, including trends in the importation of steel products , which impai r or threaten to impair the attainment of the objectives of this Arrangement.
 In particular, consultations will be held in the event that imports from the EC of covered alloy products and of products not covered
by the Arrangement show a significant increase indicating the possibility of diversion of trade from carbon to alloy products or from the categories covered in the Arrangement to those not covered. Should these consultations demonstrate that there has indeed been
a diversion of trade which is such as to impair the attainment of the objectives of the Arrangement, then within sixty days both sides
will take the necessary measures with respect to the products concerned in order to prevent such diversion, including the creation of separate categories under the Arrangement for alloy products at 1981 levels .
Consultations will also be held if there are indications that imports from third countries are replacing EC imports."
Hot rolled alloy sheet and strip Cold rolled alloy sheet
Hot rolled alloy bar
Alloy coated sheet and terne sheet and plate
Hot rolled sheet and strip Cold rolled sheet
Hot rolled bar Rail
Coated sheet Sheet piling Stainless steel
"Consultations shall be held at any time at the request of either the EC or the US, to discuss any matters, including trends in the importation of steel products, which impair or threaten to impair the attainment
of the objectives of this Arrangement .
In particular, consultations will be held in the event that imports from the EC of covered alloy products and of products not covered by the Arrangement show a significant increase indicating the possibility of diversion of trade from carbon to alloy products or from the categories covered in the Arrangement to those not covered. Should these consultations demonstrate that there has indeed been a diversion of trade which is such as to impair the attainment of the objectives of the Arrangement, then within sixty days both sides will take the necessary measures with respect to the products concerned in order to prevent such diversion, including the creation of separate categories under the Arrangement for alloy products at 1981 levels.
Consultations will also be held if there are indications that imports from third countries are replacing EC imports."
on the conclusion of the Arrangement on Steel with the United States of America
 Commission communication on the Arrangement on Steel with the United States of America
1. Asithadundertakentodo,theDepartmentofCommercehasurgedUS industry to accept the Arrangement negotiated at the beginning of August
as forming a fair basis for a negotiated settlement of the current petitions against imports of steel from the Community; the Commission for its part has carried out a parallel exercise.
After initially taking a negative stance, United States steel circles have now indicated to the Department of Commerce that they are prepared to reconsider and withdraw the petitions, provided that certain adjustments aremadetotheArrangement. Withoutgoingbackforonemomentonthe agreement reached on 6 August, the Department of Commerce has informed the Commission of the stance taken by the United States steel industry.
The Commission propose that the amended Arrangement be approved.
The adjustments to the original Arrangement consist in:
(a) The inclusion of alloy steel^ in the categories "hot-rolled sheet
and strip", "cold–rolled sheet", "structurals", "plate" and "hot-rolled bars" – which were limited in the Arrangement of 6 August to carbon
steel – and the inclusion under "coated sheet" of all "alloy-coated sheet" and "terne sheet and plate".
The market share of alloy steel and, in the case of coated sheet, alloy–coated and terne and sheet plate to be added to these categories isthesharetheCommunityhadin1981–withoutanyreduction. Taking that year as the base does not prejudice our interests since our 1981 exports of the two main items, alloy bars and alloy plate, were higher than those of previous years.
MB: excluding tool steel.
 The Community*s market share of carbon steel included in the above
categories remains as stipulated in the Arrangement as far as hot–rolled
sheet (7.43$), cold-rolled sheet (5.15$), plates (5«9S$)» structurals (10.90$) and coated sheet (3.32$) are concerned.
For hot-rolled carbon bars it becomes 2.6$ instead of the 3.01$ in the Arrangement, which is the only reduction in relation to what was agreed in August.
In 1981 imports from the Community of the newly included products were:
In 1981 imports of these products from the Community amounted to 81 499 "t» accounting for 21.85$ of the United States market.
2. To sum up, these adjustments mean:
an xncrease of 4*20$ – on the basis of 1981 import figures equivalent to 173 333 net tons - in the volume of products covered by the Arrangement of 6 August;
Hot-rolled alloy sheet and strip Cold-rolled alloy sheet
Hot-rolled alloy bars
Alloy-coated sheet and terne sheet and plate
(b) The addition of sheet piling, at the 1981 level, to the products covered.
a reduction in the Community's market share for one product – hot–rolled carbon tars .
The market share for all newly included products is the share the Community had in 1981, which is a higher level than that adopted as the reference
for the Arrangement of 6 August.
If consumption were to remain at the 1981 level, the overall reduction for the products covered would "be about &fo compared with 1981 .
Hot–rolled sheet and strip 6.81 Cold–rolled sheet 5*11 Plate 5.36 Structural shapes 9.91 Hot-rolled "bars 2.38 Rail 8.9O
Wire rods Coated sheet Sheet piling Stainless steel
4 . The provisions for
consultations are
"Consultations shall "be held at any time at the request of either the EC or the US, to discuss any matters, including trends in the importation of steel products, which impair or threaten to impair the attainment of the objectives of this Arrangement.
 In particular, consultations will be held in the event that imports from the EC of covered alloy products and of products not covered by the Arrangement show a significant increase indicating the possibility of diversion of trade from carbon to alloy products or from the categories covered in the Arrangement to those not covered. Should these consultations demonstrate that there has indeed been a diversion of trade which is such as to impair the attainment of the objectives of the Arrangement, then within sixty days both sides will take the necessary measures with respect to the products concerned in order to prevent such diversion, including
the creation of separate categories under the Arrangement for alloy products at 1981 levels.
Consultations will also be held if there are indications that imports from third countries are replacing EC imports. "
I. In order to obtain sufficient information to be able to allocate quotas among the Member States, the Commission first contacted the
producers via their professional organization EUROFER (or direct, in the case of non-members). All the exporters consulted provided the Commission with the data on their exports to the United States over the last few years.
II. In view of the inevitable fluctuations in companies* exports it was necessary to compare the results over quite a long period, and the Commission*s initial approach was to take as a basis for a fair allocation of Community quotas for each product the average relative share of each exporter over the years 1977-81 .
III. When industry was consulted allocation on this basis was found to be acceptable for most products covered by the Arrangement as agreed upon in August. The Commission dealt with sheet piling, which has been added to the product categories, in the same way.
IV. Regarding the first five product categories, although the level of exports under the Arrangement was not such that the Commission was
able to work out an allocation acceptable to all exporters, the difference between that level and the one that would have enabled
agreement to be reached was found to be minimal.
 Given that these tonnages account for such a small percentage of the total, the Commission felt it was possible to draw tip a proposal which, while not prejudicing a Community approach, took into account the consequences of not having an agreement with the United States.
V. The changes in the products covered in the different categories by comparison with the August arrangement do not, given the information to hand, alter the principles followed in deciding on burden-sharing.
VI. In implementation of the above principles, the Member States' quotas for each product in relation to the total quantities to be allooated to them
under Article 3 of the decision implementing the Arrangement are shown in the annex .
Assuming that United States consumption is comparable to that of 19°1» we are dealing here with less than 4 000 t per month (out of a total of some
270 000 t per month), or less than 1.5% for all five products.
In issuing to exporting firms licences for export to the United. States the Member States must follow the principles that guided the Commission in allocating quotas among the Member States; this will mean that firms in comparable positions vis-a-vis the United States over the 1977-81 period will be able to continue exporting much the same quantities during the life
of the Arrangement*
In order to ensure that the provisions of competition law are adhered to at both Community and Member–State level, the criteria for the issue of licences must be not only clear but drawn up in such a way as to limit the Member States * discretionary powers as far ELS possible .
However , it is essential that new export opportunities for firms , particularly those which have invested recently in order to be able to fulfil contracts
or supply expanding markets in the United States, should not be systematically ignored. This is why the Member States should make sure that traditional export flows are kept up while keeping open the possibility of coping with requests from any new exporters.
If these criteria are combined, it should be possible to make optimum use of the export opportunities offered under the Decision while keeping to the rules it lays down, notably on the phasing of exports. To this end, the
Member States are to make sure that they phase their exports in the traditional way, taking account of seasonal fluctuations, in order to prevent surges over a short period.
V. In application of the principles set out above, the Commission proposes to word Article 5(2) of the Decision implementing the Arrangement as follows:
Licences shall be issued in accordance with the following criteria:
- the rules laid down in this Decision shall be adhered to, notably that on the quota allocated by the Commission under Article 3;
- the traditional export flows of undertakings over the 1977-81 period shall be maintained, account being taken of the reduction principles set out in this Decision;
- the traditional phasing throughout the year of export flows to the United States shall be maintained;
- the export opportunities offered by this Decision shall be utilized as fully as possible and administered as efficiently as possible;
- due regard shall be had to the possibilities offered under Article 4 of this Decision;
- optimum use shall be made of any new opportunities that may result from this Decision ."
Administration of the Arrangement will require a good deal of work.
The Commission cannot call upon outside experts; given the confidential
nature of the trade data to be provided by firms the Commission has undertaken to treat the information, which is essential for the purposes
of administering the Arrangement, in such a way as to rule out the possibility of leaks .
It must be pointed cut that the United States Department of Commerce has
a permanent staff of over 300 civil servants engaged, in the administration and supervision of the different trade arrangements.
The Commission will have to have additional staff to cope with administration of the Arrangement in the following areas:
( i) monitoring the Arrangement (administration of the licences to be issued
for each quarter by the Member States , licences requested by firms , issued ,
transferred or exchanged , used in part or in toto ): 1 A-grade 2 B-grade officials and 1 C–grade official (clerical officer);
(ii) running the committee set up under the Arrangement (discussions with the Member States on the use of the quotas allocated, administration and allocation of the Community reserve): 1 A-grade official and 1 B–grade official ;
(iii) contacts with the United States (shipments in relation to deliveries, forecasts of United States consumption and , more generally , all problems of interpretation of the Arrangement ): 1 A-grade official ;
(iv) support staff for the entire operation: 2 C-grade posts (secretaries).
The Commission proposes that the Council
(i) take note of the need for the Commission to have the following additional posts made available to it in order to administer the Arrangement:
3 C-grade posts (including 1 clerical officer)
(ii) agree to provision being made in the 1983 budget for the staff in question.
sheet (7,43$), cold rolled sheet (5,15$), piates (5,98$), structurals (10,90$) og for coated sheets (3,32$).
Hot rolled alloy sheet and strip
Cold rolled alloy sheet
Hot rolled alloy bar
Alloy coated sheet and terne sheet and plate
Hot rolled sheet and strip 6,81
Cold rolled sheet
Hot rolled bar-
Coated sheet Sheet piling Stainless steel
Hot rolled alloy sheet and strip
Cold rolled alloy sheet
Hot rolled alloy "bar
Alloy coated sheet and terne sheet and plate
Hot rolled sheet and strip Cold rolled sheet
Structural shapes Hot rolled bar Rail
Coated sheet Sheet piling Stainless steel
