In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
Port of unloading './■
,–■ ITûaber of lot
f t.
i-Iininua' rate of ùnloading
( Customs of the port
ITuibor of lot
Customs of the port
Ï-Iininua rate of ùnloadir.g ■
opening an invitation to tender for the mobilisation of maize and vheatcn meal as food aid for the countries of the Sahcl
Raving rer-ord to the Ttcaty csrtablicuing the European Econonic Community;
Having regard to Council Regulation Ho 120/67/EEC ^ of 13 June 1967 on the
common organisation of the market in cereals, as last amended by regulation (SEC) Ho 1346/732\
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) Ho 1693/7£^ of 3 August 1972
laying down the conditions for the mobilization'of cereals as food aid, and in particular Article 6 thereof;
VJhereas on 14 Hay and 25 June 1973 the Council of the European Communities declared that by vay of Cumaunity action it proposed to grant the countries
of the Sahel 53,400 metric tons of maize under its 1972/73 food aid programme;
VJhereas analysis of the state of the Community cereals market indicates that tho criteria of Article 3 (3) of Council Regulation (ESC) HO 1693/72 should
be applied, and that the products should be purchased on the Community market;
Uhereaa- the proposed invitation to tender should be for supply of the products delivered cif; that is at the moment vhen the goods are actually removed from the ship's hold at the port of unloading;
Whereas the avrard under the invitation to tender must be made in favour of the tenderer offering the best terms;
Tenders are hereby invited for the supply to the countries of the Sahel
by way of Community food aid action of 25,000 tons of maize and 3,165 tons of wheaten meal distributed as follows –
Republic of U^cr Volta:
- 5,000 tons of maize (lot no 1) – 5,000 tons of maize (lot no 2)
tons of maize (lot Ko 3)
tons of v.'heaten meal (lot Kb 4)
of ITi/yer:
- 2,000 tons of maize (lot Ko 5) - 3,000 tons of maize (lot Ho C)
Whereas, should force majeure make it impossible to complete the operation in question within the set time-limits, it dioul^lp made clear v;ho is to bear the liability for any resulting costs;
Whereas provisions should he made for security to he given for the purpose of guaranteeing that the obiigations arising by virtue of participation in the invitation to tender for supplies to the countries of the Sahel will be fulfilled ?
Whereas the intervention agenqy of Prance should, in any event, be made responsible for the tendering procedure in question;
Whereas the Commission must be informed quickly of the. tneders submitted in response to the invitation and of those accepted by the intervention agency;
Whereas (Opinion of the Management Committee); HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATIOIIs
The tendering procedure shall take place in Prance in six lots. The producis shall be noHLised on the Conmunity market . The products shall be loaded for departure from a Connunity port.
The invitation to tender provied for - in paragraph 1 is for supply of products delivered cif, that is at the moment when the goods are actually
reiaoved froa the chip's hold at the port of unloading as listed in the annex .
The successful tenderer shall deliver the product specified in paragraph 1
The decision on tenders received in response to the invitation provided for in Article 1 shall be taken on 6 July 1973
for submission of tenders . . ..
in new jute sacks of a net capacity of 50 kilogrammes. shall be printed on the sacks:
The following
The closing date for submission of tenders shall bo 6 July 1973 at 12 noon The notice of invitation to tender ,"shall be published in the Official
/not later than
Journal of the Europcaa Ccmiriiuiitics three days before the closing date
The contract shall be awarded to the tenderer who makes the highest offer . However , if the tenders submitted do not appear to correspond to
nornal market prices and costs, the intervention agency nay cancel the invitation to -tender .
The successful "tenderer shall give security of a value of 5 unite of account per nctric ton of znaize and 10 units of account per metric ton of uhcaten Eeal ; the security is intended to guarantee that the operations specified in Article 1 are duly completed. The security shall ho fDrfeit if
those operations are not carried out vithin the prescribed tine-limit, save as regards quantities not delivered oi;ing to force majeure.
The security provided for in paragraph 1 eay "be given in fora of a cash deposit or of a guarantee issued by a credit institution conforming to the criteria laid dovai by the Kcnber State.
The products specified in Article i to be supplied for human consumption ' to the countries of the Dahel –
I to be of fair and sound merchantable quality, be free from odour, and correspond at least to the standard quality for which the intervention price is fixed.
t^heaten neal – hunidity :
0*4,' maxinun expressed in 0.4 S EaOII per kg. of product 0.95/; naxinun
- acidity :
-granulation: notfinerthan0.59cm,no30
finer than 0.149 no 100 nech: 1j/jnaxinum
If the products provided for in Article 1 do not correspond to the above characteristics, they shall be refused and shall be returned to the tenderer.
Tenders for supply to the countries of the Cahol of the products specified in irticlo 1 Bust relate to products of taaiso leaving the follevin.;; characterieties –
to V of fair and sound ncrchtuatablo cruality, "be free from odour, end correspond at least to the standard <tual ity for which, the intervention price is fixt-C..
The French ir.tcrv* ntion a^-ney thall "bo. refcpousibie for the operations r^latins to -tho invitation to tender provided for by this Peculation.
It shall forthwith coanunicat© to the Cosaaissien the lint of firae vhich havo responded to the invi tut icon to tender t specifying the terns of each . tender| tof?cthrr with th;- mm and iKuancs-s luaae of t?i© successful tenderer.
intervention agency shall ask that the tenderer specifies the foiiovin^ icfuraation – ,
a) aftor each shipcent, a stat^acnt givic,? details of tlw> -lusntities leaded, the quality of th-> products ,wl their
l>) the date of the .-'epartvire of the ship£>, ihr- expected date cf arrival of the products at their destination.
c) all possible coatin^anoics which night cccur dia»ir^ transportation of th-n products.
– gramuataon t not finer than 0.59 Baa, no 30
The interv r.tic-n a-;;eney shall transmit, the infernation provided for to the Ceianission as soon as it is received.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in ths Official Journal of the "Euro-scan Ccnrrmities .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all l'lecibor States .
Done at Brussels . For the Commission The President
