In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
nement en eau (Department of Health and Social Security Welsh office , Ministry of Housing and Local Government),
Virus entéropa^- thogènes
(5) Recherche absence(5) absence absence absence(1)qualitative-
Détergents anioniques *
Irland :
versorgung (Department of Health and Social Security Welsh Offioe, Minis­ try of Housing and Local Government).
Trockenrückstand mg/l
Rückstand yug/l - RückstaMyug/l
Luxembourg, 4 July 1975
OBJECT: Request for authorisation,to transmit to the Council a directive
This directive is presented within the framework of the Environmental Action programme of the European Communities vhich considered the establish-
T ment of common standards for vaters destined for human consumption as an . , urgent action to be effected as rapidly as possible. ^
? ulation by fixing health standards vhich are respected by the Member States vith regard to the quality of vaters destined for human consumption.
Consequently it is proposed that the Conmission:
• - approves the text of the Directive
" authorises its transmission to the Council.
This document concerns a Directive to fix, at the Community level, the quality standards for vater destined for human consumption. This Directive takes into account the objectives contained in the Environmental Action programme (Part II , Title I , chapter 2 ) in which it is recommended to fix, as rapidly as possible, the quality standards for water destined for human consumption.
In the explanatory memorandum there is a summary of the problems posed by drinking water within the Member States. The requirements for water quality are increasingly important and the available resources are not evolving at the same rate. Particular attention should be paid to ensure that the quality of water destined for human consumption are respected with a view to protecting the health of the population: water can be a most important vector for the transmission to man of germs and noxious and toxic elements.
The directive is based on the W.H.O. recommendations concerning the quality of drinking water as well as recently established con-siderations regarding toxic substances and specific essential factors . A complete control programme for the quality of waters destined for human consumption is also given so that the established standards can be respected.
Directorate-General for Social affairs
The setting of standards for the quality of water intended for human consumption is an integral part of the aims, principles and ac­
tivities laid down in the Programme of Action on the Environment adopted lay the Council of Ministers on 22 November 1973.*
While the setting of standards for vater intended for human con­ sumption is clearly in keeping vith the programme aimed at reducing pollution and nuisance?-, it should also include an objective evaluation of the threat to human health presented by pollution. **
Such a task is difficult and contains many unknown quantities.
The Environmental Action Programme, taking account of the uncertainties in the cause-effect relationship in certain parameters, thus states
that , in the case of pollutants for which adequate information is avail­ able at international level, standards should be fixed before 31 December 197^ (see Action Programme Part II. Title I, Chapter 2B).
**) Health, in this context, is considered in the sense of the WHO definition, "health is not merely an absence of illness or in­ firmity, but also a complete state of physical, mental and social well-being'' .
This directive deals with the establishment of these standards , i.e. the choice of a series of parameters, the numerical values given to them and also the measures relating to the monitoring and supervision of
water intended for human consumption.
The average amount of water used per inhabitant per diem differs fromoneCommunitycountrytoanother; dependingonthetypeofpopu­ lation concerned , it varies from less than 150 litres to more than 500 litres. Industry alone uses very considerable quantities each day. Because of the increase in water requirements , it is necessary to draw on all potential sources cf water which can be processed for human use; in particular, surface waters are increasingly used for this purpose, and since they often contain non-degradable polluting substances , these waters must be subjected to increasingly elaborate purification pro­ cesses. The quality of water supplied for human consumption must therefore be supervised, and levels of toxicity and noxiousness fixed with reference to the most up-to-date scientific knowledge in this field. A draft directive* on the quality of surface water intended for the production of drinking water, presented by the Commission to the Council, was approved by the Council at its meeting on 7 November 197't.
In analysing the legislation in force in the Member States of the European Communities, one finds a certain number of provisions appli­ cable to drinking vatpr which, although in the same category, are neither comprehensive ncr at the same stage of planning and development . The following references summarize the situation in each Member State.
Official Journal No. C UU of 19 April 1971*
21 May 1973 - Draft decision of the Commission of Ministers of the Benelux Economic Union regarding the harmonization of legislation on the supply of water to industrial plantsi,<or ~.t.o Cottage iMufctri-eS'tiilt>shioh foodstuffs 950cprodu®edy-4pi««4s£ted«,r^packaged or treated. •
October 1973 - Danish standards for drinking water - draft tn iieatingior of water. Simplified bacteriological examination.
May 1973 - Definition of the quality of drinking water supplied to the public - draft in anticipation of the Community decision - revised edition of the texts of the decrees* orders and circular letters of the years 1961 and 1962 (Ministry of Public Health and Population).
There are no mandatory standards for drinking water. The V7H0 European standards for drinking water are used as guidelines. Each Health Authority is responsible for the standards of the water supplies under its control. Legislation on the fluoridation of water (Health Fluoridation of Water Supplies Act I960) is applicable to water supplies.
Standards dealing with the quality of drinking water were approved by the Council for Health on 13 December 1972. Provisional national legislation is based on these standards pending the publication of European standards.
13 November 1970 - Grand-ducal Regulation on vater intended ~o directly tv ' indirectly' for hurcart'"fccSnSurnption.
Netherlands :
197^ ~ The 'Health Council' defxneddthe criteria to be met by- surface waters intended for the production of drinking water.
Federal Republic of C-ernany:
1961: Law relating to measures aimed at preventing communicable diseases in man (Federal lav on epidemics) of 18 July 1961 (BGB1 I, No. 53» ?. 1012).
1975 : Regulation concerning drinking vater and industrial vater used in the food processing industry (regulation on drinking vater) of 31 January 1975 (BGB1 I, p. U53).
197'+*. Law relating to the reorganization and coordination of legislation on standards for food products, tobacco products, cosmetics and other consumer goods (law on the overall reform of standards for food products) of 15 August 197^ (BGB1 Part I No. 95» p• 19^5).
1959: Regulation concerning the addition of extraneous substances in the treatment of drinking water (regulation concerning the treatment of drinking water) of 19 December 1959 (as amended:-by. - the regula­
1969, Uth edition: The Bacteriological Examination of Water Sup­
plies (Department of Health and Social Security, Welsh Office, Ministry of Housing and Local Government ).
A study of the complete texts of these documents shows that drink­
ing vater standards , although they are similar , have not the same degree
of precision or iftarity.fofitlefirititibn la.^the Jiembar Strafes. of; the European
the treatment of drinking water of 27 June i960 (BGB1 p. Vf9)).
Community. Moreover, some provisions are "based simply on the European standards of the World Health Organization, and others on a more or less comprehensive system of national legislation.
If the parameters selected are classified under six headings - organoleptic factors, physical and chemical factors, biological factors, undesirable and toxic factors , bacteriological and virological factors , and radiological factors, it can be seen that the organoleptic factors are seldom taken into account, and that, as regards the intrinsic na­ ture of the vater , i.e. its physical and chemical properties , consider­ able differences exist between one country and another.
They are, however, almost unanimous as regards toxic substances, although, in general, the various regulations do not take ac­ count of the results of recent research into the long-term health risks arising from the persistence of certain substances in vater.
Moreover; all Member States are concerned to protect the consumer at
all costs against microbial contamination. All the regulations place
particular emphasis on bacteriological properties ; the virological
aspects contained in the World Health Organization standards of 1971 are
not systematically taken into account.
In the case of radioactivity, the Member States generally refer to the measures recommended by the agencies specializing in this field, especially to the basic standards drawn up in connection with the Eur­ atom Treaty.
It should be noted that several States are taking step3 to limit residual additives persisting after treatment of the water.
The discrepancies noted in the national legislations of Member States on the quality of water intended for human consumption are an obstacle to trade within the Community and thus have a direct bear­ ing on the functioning of the Common Market. It is therefore essen-
ti&l, in the light of the EEC Treaty, that the different legislations be harmonized. Such harmonization will also make it possible to complete the projects planned in the European Community's Action Programme on water intended for human consumption.
While it is certain that the Standards of the World Health Organi­
zation can provide an essential foundation for any national legislation,
it must be said that these provisions do not meet present-day require­ ments, particularly as a new era has begun in the definition of standards.
Since the WHO standards were fixed, and in spite of recent re­
vision, the significance to health tightly attached to the presence of metallic ions in drinking water has increased considerably and is now
much more important than that envisaged when the standards were drafted.
The same remark could be made with reference to other groups of substances , in particular organic and organo-metallic micro-pollutants .
Furthermore, another very important factor is that the properties of the water available are often altered by the consumer with a view to protecting his domestic supply system. This problem, which was not envisaged by the WHO, has been studied in detail by the competent de­ partments of the Commission.
Leaving aside the general use of bacteriological standards , which provide a better safeguard for the consumer in the immediate future , each Member State has selected what appeared to be the best parameters having regard to local conditions. So long as the countries remained autonomous as regards water supplies because their own resources were adequate, standardization often only meant finding the solution to a domestic problem. Today the situation is changed. Because of the increase in demand, associated with population growth and newhabits and
requirements, former sources are insufficient; surface water must be used. However, such water has many uses and the rivers and streams must henceforth cope simultaneously with widely differing requirements including those of navigation, the disposal of industrial and urban re­ fuse, and that of water supplies.
Where international rivers are concerned, it evidently becomes necessary to compare the measures needed and to coordinate facilities for appraising the situation. This explains the continuous efforts made over the past 20 years to maintain or restore a raw water quality consistent with the production of drinking water. A standardized
system of monitoring for each basin was therefore devised and a return to the previous position is extremely unlikely.
Considerable reserves of ground water are now also being drawn on, supplied on a commercial basis and exported to countries of the European Community and also to non-member countries. This is particularly
true of table waters. In recent years, these exchanges have raised questions of a technical, legal and medical nature.
Another important aspect very much in the limelight is the use of softening systems to modify the composition of water supplied to the consumer. The remarkable growth in these systems, due to the pressure of changes made in the methods of satisfying normal demand, is taking place, because of the inadequacy of existing regulations, in a partial legal vacuum. In view of the equipment and products being used, this question is at present as important, on an international scale, as that of the treatment of ground water in containers made of material of varying stability.
It is therefore not merely the quality of the source vater vhich is at issue, but that of the finished product on which the consumer is directly dependent. This situation requires that existing national regulations , which often refer to the non-mandatory standards of the World Health Organization, should be harmonized and supplemented if necessary by a directive drawn up by the European Communities.
In relation to the interraticnal standardization of the quality of water supplies j the World Health Organization and the Commission of the European Communities have powers to define standards,, the former only in the form o ? non-binding recommendations 9 the latter in the form of mandatory rcctivosVOtllor1 15'iate 'tfito- concerned with
secondary problems relating to the quality of raw water intended for the production of drinking water, and with prohibitions or limited toler­ ances referring to ths discharge of certain substances resulting from induatrial activities or urban uewage.
To sum up, the enactment of this directive is in keeping with general rethinking on the subject of water quality and is intended to reconcile the conflicting needs of productivity on the one hand and public health on the other ; th^se needs are linked with the necessity to use surface waters which must serve several purposes simultaneously
(in particular navigation and the drainage of 6ffluent' or othcr-'trr-ter)»
This draft directive sent to the Council deals with the standards applicable to the quality of vater intended for human consumption. It
also covers drinking vater as such and vater used in preparing food and
in the food manufacturing industry, vith the exception of natural mineral waters and medicinal waters, recognized as such, and also of aerated voters. •' - ' ' •'j- *-
Water intended for human consumption must possess a certain number of properties, shovn in the appended tables.
The parameters selected form a coherent vhole on the basis of which * the properties of water intended for human consumption can be logically defined . Toxic substances and noxious germs are given priority , as
shown in the Commission's environmental programme, but they must be
integrated vith another group of parameters vhich, while not having the
same priority, often condition the behavior and effect of toxic substances
and noxious germs. For that reason, in order to viev the problem objectively, they must be taken into consideration. Five types of parameter have
therefore been shovn in the tables appended to the draft directive.
The choice of parameters was based on several criteria. They
•i.ossoirtittl health roc.fiiroinenti; ia"?this: coimrct10:1 I-Iixisnuni Admissible Con­ centrations ■ (MAC)*..were- fixed forial-1 pollutants "and Ilinimuin Required Con­
.."cantrations (MRC)** uero laid dowi'for co.lcium, raa^ncaiura, Mcr.rbonates, chlorides and sulphates#
- the need to consider special local situations (climate, hydro-
geology)j and the concern of the responsible authorities to be able
to take appropriate action in exceptional circunstancoc (natural catas­
trophei 'floods). To this end it ia ponniblc to incorporate Exceptional Maximum Admissible Concentrations (EMAC)***
- the wish to improve the quality of water intended for human con­ sumption. The Guide Levels (GL)*°** chosen represent target quality objectives .
It is necessary to define and agree on terminolgy to be used within the Community in order to eliminate the ambiguities of terminologies at present in use both at national and international levels.
the concentration below which a substance in water cannot , in the course of continuous ingestion ., cause or directly or indirectly result in an identifiable effect harmful to health in a statistically representative sample of the population involved .
(MRC): the minimum concentration of a substance., the presence of which is essential for preventing the occurrence of identifiable harmful effects in a statistically representative sample of the population involved, either directly or indi­ rectly, as a result of repeated ingestion.
♦*+) (EMAC): the exceptional maximum admissible concentration which may be authorized locally by the relevant authorities , either temporarily in view of particular meteorological conditions,
or permanently in view of geographical or geological conditions.
++++) (GL): the concentration . of a given' sirbstanoe in -water rhioh^it is advisable- not to exceeds --v ..
The considerations underlying the choice of the different parameters are based on present scientific knowledge of the effects produced by water pollutant3 or by substances contained in water on the population in general or on specific population groups (children, aged persons5 the sick ...).
This scientific knowledge relates both to the immediate effects and also to the long-term consequences . Since there are still considerable gaps in our knowledge in this area it is necessary to be very cautious in deciding what levels to select.
The updating of technical and scientific knowledge will necessitate a five-yearly revision of these standards. Moreover, a request for a partial revision may be made , either my a Member State or in answer to a proposal from the Commission, particularly with reference to Exceptional Maximum Admissible Concentrations*, these must be of a temporary nature.
With reference to the monitoring of these standards , representative sampling and a recognised system of analysis should ensure that meaningful and comparable results are obtained.
Spot srjnplihgt;;UEraall" only sih^lo- sciipleS, on the- basis of nhich.multiple. testsarecarriedout,shouldbeabandonedinfavourof multiple sampling on which only a few tests, and not all, are based.
The size of the population involved and the capacity of the source of oupply should also be considered.
Moreover, the consumer, in order to ensure his ovm amenity and to protect his domestic distribution system, sometimes modifies his water supply. Since this modification has an effect on both health and the
safety of installations , it is essential that the sampling after rinsing which is normally practised, should be preceded by an initial sampling of water which has stagnated in the pipework.
There is, therefore, an order of priority among the parameters determining the frequency of sampling and analyses. This order of priority is taken into account in the system of standard analyses already in use in certain Community countries. Three types of analysis, Aa B, C of increasing complexity, are selected: (see Annex II)
-AnalysisA constantmonitoringofdistributionnetworkssupplied from either
- underground, stable vater with the usual protection perimeters ('analysis Al)
- surfaceormixedwater(analysisA2)' subdividedaccordingto the size 'o?~ the supply : * •
Analysis"B regularsystematicmonitoring,tosupplementthe monitoring by analysis Al and a2 " whatever the origin of the water .
- Analysis t occasional tests in exceptional or accidental cir­ cumstances, complementary toanalyses A and B.
The frequency of these standard analyses is determined by two essential factors:
- foranalysesA'^hdB,thecapacityoftheinstallationandthesize of the population served,
- far analysis' C4 the source vulnert.bility and the hazzards ■ r threatening it, regardless of the size of the population served and the capacity of the installation.
With reference to the analytical techniques themselves, a number of sampling methods have been suggested which take account both of the most recent technical advances and of conditions found in some laboratories
which are not yet adequately equipped.
The Council of the European Communities,
HAVING REGARD to the Treaty establishing the European Communities, and in particular Article 100 thereof,
HAVING REGARD to the proposal from the Commission,
HAVING REGARD to the opinion of the European Parliament,
HAVING REGARD to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
WHEREAS in view of the increasing use of water intended for human consumption, it is necessary to lay down quality standards with which such water must comply,
WHEREAS national legislation relating to the quality of water intended for human consumption differs from one Member State to another, these discrepancies being an obstacle to trade within the Community and therefore having a direct bearing on the functioning of the Common Market ,
WHEREAS the Programme of Action of the European Communities on the Environment (l) provides for the setting of standards for toxic chemical substances and for germs which endanger health and are present in water intended for human consumption, end also for the definition of physical, chemical and biological parameters corresponding to the different uses of such water and in particular to drinking water,
0J no C 112 of 20 December 1973
on the harmonization of the legislation of Member States
relating to the use and marketing of natural mineral waters lays down special rules for such waters, and whereas, further­ more , it is necessary to exclude medicinal and aerated waters from the scope of this directive,
the values fixed for certain parameters must be lower than the concentration below which substances in the water cannot , in the course of continuous ingestion , cause or directly
or indirectly result in an identifiable effect harmful to health in a statistically representative sample of the pop­ ulation involved (Maximum Admissible Concentration),
the values fixed for certain other parameters must be equal to or greater than the minimum concentration in water of a
substance, the presence of vhich is essential for preventing the occurrence of identifiable harmful effects in a statis­
tically representative sample of the population involved, either directly or indirectly, as a result of repeated ingestion (Minimum Required Concentration),
values lover than the Guide Level values (the concentration in water of a given substance which should ideally not be exceeded) must be considered to be entirely satisfactory,
in order to achieve a certain flexibility in t'ae application of this directive , the possibility must be left to Member States to foresee derogations to the present directive to take account of special specific situations ,
in order fully to attain the objectives relating to quality and particularly to check thetrue concentrations of the different parameters, it is necessary to provide that Member States take the steps required to ensure regular monitoring of the quality of water intended for human consumption,
WHEREAS the technical specifications defined in the annexes to this directive must be rapidly updated to take account of technical progress, and vhereas, in order to facilitate the application of the measures necessary for this purpose, provision must
be made for a procedure establishing close cooperation between
the Member States and the Commission within the Committee responsible for adaptation of this Directive to technical progress ,
This Directive shall not apply:
This Directive deals with the standards which water intended for human consumption must satisfy..'
For the purpose of this Directive, water intended for human con­ sumption shall mean water, used for that purpose, either in its original
state or after treatment to modify its physico-chemical structure," regardless oforigin,privatewellsanddrill-holesinparticular. 'Itsfeallinclude:
- watersuppliedtotheconsumerbyapublicmainssystem,
- water stored or delivered in bottles or other containers, ,
- water used for washing containers or in the preparation or pre- servation of foodstuffs , including ice-crean •, and the preparation of drinks, aerated or otherwise.
a) tomineralwatersrecognizedassuchbytheHealthAuthoritiesm accordance with the provisions of the Council Directive on the haarmonization0* laws of the Member States relating to the
b) tomedicinalwatersrecognizedassuchbytherelevantHealth Authorities and supplied and used for therapeutic purposes.
c) to aerated waters. 1.r
1) The Member States shall fix values applicable to vater intended for human consumption for all the parameters shown in Annex I. The values to be fixed may not be greater than the values shown in the Maximum Admissible Concentration columns. They shall be equal to or greater than the values shown in the Minimum Required Concentration columns.
2) With reference to the values given in the Guide Level columns, the Member States shall fix limits based on those shown in those
columns; any concentration less than that provided for in the
Guide Level columns shall be considered to be entirely satisfactory.
3) In interpreting the values shown in columns 3,k,5 of the tables in Annex I> account shall be taken of any references in column 6* "Comments ."
U) The Member States shall take the steps required to ensure that water intended for human consumption, conforms to the above values.
1) The Member States may make provision for departures from the terms of this Directive in order to take account of:.
a) situations arising from the nature and structure of the ground in the geographical area from which the source in question emanates , - " ' • ~
b ) situations arising from exceptional climatic
When a Member State intends to make a departure as provided for in l)a) above, it shall inform the Commission accordingly within two months, stating the reasons therefor.
The Member States may make provision for Exceptional Maximum Admis­ sible Concentrations where such a possibility is mentioned in the 'Comments' column of Annex I.
By Exceptional Maximum Admissible Concentration is meant the maxi­ mum admissible concentration which may be authorized locally by the relevant authorities , either temporarily in view of particular meteorological conditions , cr permanently in view of geographical or geological conditions.
In no case shall the departures taken by Member States by virtue of this Article exempt them from the conditions imposed for the pro­ tection of public health.
When a Member State intends to make a departure as provided for in 1)b) above, it shall inform the Commission accordingly within eight days of the appearance of the exceptional climatic conditions and shall state the reasons and the period involved.
The Member States shall take all necessary steps to ensure regular monitoring of the quality of water intended for human consumption, par­ ticularly in order to check the true concentration of the different parameters measured.
Where such monitoring is based on sampling and analysis , the fre­ quency of sampling shall be determined by the relevant national authori­ ties; it shall be based on thecapacity of the water supply installation, the size of the population served and on special circumstances such as , in particiilar, periods of drought or flooding and the risk of epidemics.
For such monitoring, the Member State? shall as far as possible use the standard model analyses given in Annex II and the analytical methods shown in Annex III.
Any changes which are necessary in order to adapt the Annexes of this Directive to take account of scientific and technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 9.
a) A Committee on the Adaptation to Technical Progress of the Direc­ tives on the quality of water intended for human consumption, hereinafter called "the Committee", is hereby set up; it shall consist of representatives of the Member States with a represen­ tative of the Commission as Chairman.
b) The Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure.
Where the procedure laid down in this Article is to be followed, matters shall be referred to the Committee by the Chairman, either on his own initiative or at the request of the representative of a Member State .
The representative of the Commission shall submit to the Committee
a draft of the measures to be adopted. The Committee shall deli­ ver its Opinion on the draft within a time limit set by the Chair­ man having regard to the urgency of the matter. Opinions shall be adopted by a majority of Ul votes , the votes of Member States being weighted as provided in Article 1U8 (2) of the Treaty. The Chairman shall not vote .
The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged where they are in accordance with the Opinion of the Committee.
b) Where the measures envisaged are not in accordance with the Opinion of the Committee, or if no Opinion is adopted, the Commission shall without delay propose to the Council the measures to be adopted. The Council shall act by a qualified majority .
I. c) If, within three months of the proposal being submitted to it,
the. Council has not acted, the proposed measures shall be adopted by the Commission.
The Member States shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the application of the measures taken by virtue of this Directive shall in - no case have the effect of allowing any further deterioration, directly or indirectly, in the present quality of the waters referred to in this Directive. .
Annexes I, II and III shall, form an integral part of this Direc­ tive .
a) Member States shall put into force the laws, regulations and admin­ „. istrativeprovisionsnecessarytocomplywiththisDirectiveand
its Annexes within two years of its notification and shall forth­ with inform the Commission thereof.
b) Member States shall communicate to the Commission the texts of the
main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field Γ· - .* »·
covered by this Directive. ARTICLE 13
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Tables A to E
Standard analyses
Reference methods of analysis
Organoleptic factors
Fhysicochemical factors Biological factors Undesirable or toxic factors
Microbiological factors
replaced in certain circums- tances by a transparency test, withSecohidiscreadingin. . meters
relate to palatability tests
relate to odour tests ;
Required 1 }
Level Admissible Required Concentration Concentration
possible recourse to E.M.A.C, corresponding resistivity va­ lues in ohms/cm 25OO - 800
possible recourse to E.M.A.C. ;'
possible recourse to E.M.A.C. possible recourse to E.M.A.C· possible reoourse to E.M.A.C.
possible recourse to E.M.A.C·
Conductivity yuS/öm 400 1250
hydrometric title mg/ l
possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
tl',5/1 for'bottled or other
water used for mixing babies* bottles
possible recourse to E.M.A.C·
N+ mg/l NO and NO^)
5 mg/l above the natural" level
)lussolved oxygon Qxi&ability
possiblerecoursetoE.M.A.C. measured when heated and in acid medium
Admissible Required COMMENTS Conoentration Concentration
50'fa of ini­ tial dissol-
the reason for any increase in the usual concentration
must be investigated
M.A.C, varies according to average temperature in geo- graphical area concerned
possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
Possible recourse to E*M,A.C.
Antimony Selenium Zino
Polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons Phenol index
after isolaticiι
100 2000 after 16 hra of contact 2000 at consumer outlet
Pfcscicidee and related products
Other orgcno- chlorine compounds
By pesticides and associated products is meantï
Total coliforms Fecal coliforms Fecal streptococci
surface water
treated wa­ ter
not disin-
(3) On condition that 1 enough samples are
• analyzed and results s are 95$ uniform
(4) Per type of "bacterio? phage
IÉ? of the
not dis- disin-
infected fected disinfected fected
Fecal Bacteriophages
surface water
(4) Per type of bacte- riophage
treated water
not disin-
not dis-
3 §*3 Baaple infected fected disinfected fected
of the
U * Comments on the storage of samples
Parameters to be considered ,
Frequency of
standard analyses ,
Conductivity Conductivity
1 - Parameters to be considered
Current monitoring of the distribution networks
' upplementary to A1 and
Turbiaity Odour Palatability Température
Conductivity Total mineral
in special situations or
in case of accidents- supplementary to
A and B
f&SÏSity Odour Palatability Température
Palatability Température
Sulphates Sulphates Chlorides Chlorides Nitrates Nitrates Ammonia
Total coliforms Fecal coliforms
A2 surface or mixed water
supplementary to A1 and A2
Dissolved oxygen Oxidizability
in case of accidents supplementary to A and Β
Dissolved oxygen Oxidizability Chemical oxygen demand (COD) Bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD )
Total carbon (TOC) Substances extractable!.„· in chloroform
All undesirable or
* - · toxic factors presumed
Total coliforms Fecal coliforms
Total coliforms Fecal coliforms
1 - Parameters to "be considered (continued)
À¡ Current monitoring of the distribution net-
works supplied by A1 ..... ·
Systematic periodic special situations ror
Anionic detergents + others presumed presert
Total coliforms Fecal coliforms
Pathogenic staphylococci Fecal bacteriophages Viruses – Amoeba Animalcules
2 - Frequency of standard analyses
Current monitoring of distribution networks supplied by ground water
Current monitoring of distribution networks supplied by surface or mixed water - very limited or only one supply
(i) withprotectiveperimeter*
(ii) without protective perimeter * - large supply
m Systematical periodical monitoring, supplementary to Δ1 and A2
Oooasional monitoring in exceptional situations or in case of accident: supplementary to A1, A2 and Β
recommended quarterly
quarterly monthly daily
compulsory six-monthly
six-monthly quarterly weekly
*) Tho protective perimeter set up on the basis of a geological report is a defined area around a water supply sour­ ce; spring water, ground water, Burface water. A distinction is drawn "between:
- the immediate protective perimeter, which is fenced off and within which all activity is forbidden, and
- the cuter protective perimeter within which activity is forbidden or subject to regulation,
'Jin the case of supplies drawn directly from a riverf protection is ensured within aai approximate zone inside which the discharge of waste water should be avoided or, at least may only be permitted after extra treatment.
six-monthly annually
As required - to be determined by the
competent health authorities
In order to carry out typical analyses it is necessary to take samples of sufficient quantities of water vith equipment designed for this purpose.
a) Bacteriological examination'
Samples of the water should be taken in sterile jars:
- in searching for germs, fecal contamination tests: a sample
of 500 cm3 of water •> ' - in searching for salmonella, a sample of 1000 cm3 of water - insearchingforviruses,&sampleof10,000cm3ofwater
b) Chemical examination
- Type A analysis : a sample of 1000 cm3 of water in clean glass
- Type B analysis : a sample of 2000 cm3 of water
jars with ground stoppers divided as follows:
- 1000 cm3 in searching for toxic or undesirable substances
• 2000 cm3 for an analysis of organoleptic, physico-chemical
or biological factors.
a) Generallyspeaking,samplesshouldpreferablybestoredbydeep freezing
agent8 which will be added to the sample either when it is taken or in the laboratory.
c) Watersamplesformicrobiologicalanalysesshouldbetakenin sterile jars and kept in a cold temperature (0°C) during the journey to the laboratory. r If possible, the analysis should take place immediately on arrived at the laboratory or, at the latest, U8 hours after the sample is taken.
necessary, depending on the element being sought, to use preserving
Reference methods of analysis
A - 3) Biological factors
A - k) Undesirable or toxic factors
Microbiological factors
Organoleptic factors Physico-chemical factors
For the parameters indicated by an asterisk, parameters common to water destined for human consumption and to surface waters to be
used for the production of drinking water, the analytical reference methods are currently being studied within the framework of the prepar­ ation of a directive on analytical methods regarding the quality
of surface waters to be used for the production of drinking water*
 Reference methods of analysis
Palatabiiity Successivedilutions
PH Conductivity Total mineral
Absorption spectrophotometry using a specific reagent
Absorption spectrophotometry using molybdosilicic acid with or vithout reduction
Acidimetry on methyl orange »
 Dissolved oxygen Oxidizability
Total organic carbon (TOC)
„£^"- ."'4.'•'I c-l'i <*: Mineral oils and • r-r;'*:- polycyclic a
Phenol index Anionic detergents
related products
v Absorption spectrophotometry using reduced phosphomolybdie
Oxidation to Sb ^
formation of methylene
aromatic carbons ' ' '* * ' R'v:.**"■:i ■*<*oi."C-*
 Total coliform Fecal coliform
Fecal bacteriophages Enteropathogenic
milk, count according to MPN
Membrane and culture filtration on a specific
medium (e.g. Chapman's hypersaline medium). ~
Guilin's process m . r ^ * ' ' «h . - " Ï-J
Afterheatingthesampleto80 Casporecount"by - seeding in a medium vith glucose.' sulphite' ' r
- membrane filtration* deposition of the 1
inverted filter on a medium vith glucose,
sulphite and iron covered vith agar, count '
of black colonies "
- distribution in tubes of differential reinforced
--'■*'•.:• • i. clostridial medium, reinoculation of the
black tubes in a medium of litmus-treated
Filtration concentration, by flocculation or centrifugation and identification. „
Concentration by filtration on a membrane, . ^ microscopic examination, test of pathogenicity.
Macroscopic or microscopic examination
COMMENTS: The incubation period is generally 2k to U8 hours except . ^
for total ccSints when it is 1»8 to 72 hours. . ...
nemont en eau (Department of Health and Social Security Welsh office . Ministry of Housing and Local Govarnnrsnt).
Virus entéropa- thogènes
absenco (5)| absence absence (5)i
Conductivity lîinéralisation totale Dureté Totale Calciur?
Détergents anioniqucs (selon présomDtion )
Irland :
versorgong (Department of Health and Social Security Welsh Office, Minis­ - try of Housing and Loual Government )„ ■ ■
Trocken- xückstand .... .
1969, 4a edizione . Esame batteriologico dell'approwigionamento d'acqua ( Department of Health and Social Security Welsh Office , Ministry of Housing and Local Government).
Compiessometria EDTA ■*
Computo totale
lerland Î
Nederland :
Bonasrepubliek Duitsland :
1969 , vierde uitgave . Het bacteriologisch onderzoek van water (Department of Health and Social Security Welsh Office, Ministry of
Housing end Local Governemont ) .
5^ s i sch-cherai- sohe factoren
Ongewonete of toxische factoren
Telling totalen
Telling totalen
0ngewen3te of torLsclie factoren
„, .„,5+ 0:ydatic met Sb
Telling totalen
COM(75)394 final Brussels, 22 July 1975
Proposal for a COUNCIL DIRECTIVE
relating to the quality of water for human consumption
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
The setting of standards for the quality of water intended for human consumption is an integral part of the aims, principles and ac­ tivities laid down in the Programme of Action on the Environment adopted by the Council of Ministers on 22 November 1973.*
While the setting of standards for water intended for human con­ sumption is clearly in keeping with the programme aimed at reducing pollution and nuisances , it should also include an objective evaluation of the threat to human health presented by pollution . **
Such a task is difficult and contains many unknown quantities.
The Environmental Action Programme , taking account of the uncertainties in the cause-effect relationship in certain parameters , thus states that, in the case of pollutants for which adequate information is avail­ able at international level, standards should be fixed before 31 J^ecember 197^ (see Action Programme Part II Title I» Chapter 2B).
"*) Official Journal C 112 of 20 December 1973
**) Health, in this context, is considered in the sense of the WHO definition, '"health is not merely an absence of illness or in­ firmity, but also a complete state of physical, mental and social well-being'' .
This directive deals with the establishment of these standards,
i.e. the choice of a series of parameters, the numerical values given to them and also the measures relating to the monitoring and supervision of water intended for hum/in consumption.
The average amount of water used par inhabr-.&nt p^r . diem differs from one Community country to another; depending on the type of popu­ lation concerned, it varies from less than 150 litres to more then 500 litres . Industry alone uses very conniderab;! e quantities each day. Because of the increase in water requirements, it ia necessary to draw on all potential sources of water which can "be processed for toucan usej in particular , surface waters are increasingly U3ed for this purpose , and sin-je they often contain non-degradable polluting substances, theae waters nu3t "be subjected to increasingly elaborate purification pro­ cesses. The quality of water supplied for human consumption must . therefore be supervised, and levels of toxicity and noxiousness fixed with reference to the most up-to-date scientific knowledge in this field. A draft directive* en the quality of surface water intended for the production of drinking water, presented by the Coranisoicn to the Council, was approved by the Council at its meeting on 7 November 157^•
In analysing the legislation in force in the Member States of the European Communities, one finds a certain number of provisions appli­ cable to drinking water which, although in the same category;, are neither comprehensive nor at the same stage of planning and development . The following references summarize the situation in each Member State.
Official Journal No. C UU of 19 April 1974
21 May 1973 - Draft decision o? the Commission of Ministers of the Bene]ux Economic Union regarding the harmonization of legislation on the supply of vater to industrial pfcanisisnav'-ito fcatitagiff- iMufetid^&riiaffRhioh dPooiistuffe para cprodusised^jpxotJdissiedky-ipaGlf iged or treated .
October 1973 - Danish standards for drinking vater - draft "tar ■•tffstingior of water . Simplified bacteriological examination .
F?y 1973 - Definition of the quality of drinking vater supplied to
the public - draft in anticipation of the Community decision - revised x
edition of the texts of the decrees, orders and circular letters of the years 1961 and 1962 (Ministry of Public Health and Population).
Ireland :
There are no mandatory standards for drinking vater. The WHO Furopean standards for drinking vater are used as guidelines. Each Health Authority is responsible for the standards of the vater supplies under its control. Legislation on the fluoridation of water (Health Fluoridation of Water Supplies Act I960 ) is applicable to vater supplies .
Italy :
Standards dealing with the quality of drinking vater were approved by the Council for Health on 13 December 1972. Provisional national legislation is bared on these standards pending the publication of European standards.
13 November 1S70 - Grand-ducal Regulation on water intended &? dirsiefly^p'tlidSfcectlv"for huraart'<x?r.,surAptlon,
Netherlands :
I960 - Decree on drinking water.
197^ - The "Health Council' defirieddihe criteria td be met ly surface waters intended for the production of driukitg water.
Federal Republic of Germany:
1961 Lav. relating to measures aimed at preventing coraraunicable diseases in man (Federal law on epidemics) of 18 J\-Q.y 1951 (EGBI I, No. 53, p. 1012).
. ^157.5: Regulation concerning drinking water and industrial water used in the food processing industry {regulation on drinking water) of 31 January 1375. (BGB1 I, p.-^53).
■v,'• 197^: Law relating to the reorganization ancl coordination of '
legislation on standards for food products, tobacco products, cosmetics and other connumsr goods (law on the overall rofom cf standards for food products) of 15 August 197^. (LGB1 Part I No. 95, p. 19^5).
1959: Regulation concerning the addition of extrrjiecus substances " in the treatment of- drinking water '(regulation concerning the trsatnent,
of drinking water) of 19 December 1959 (as vln;? the regula­
tion concerning the treatment of drinking water of 27 June i960 (BGB1
, . "Water Act 1973, Chapter 37-' ■ . ■ • ••• - * - 1969 , Uth .editions • The -Bacteriological Examination of Water Sup­
plies (Department of Health and Social Security, Welsh Office,.Ministry of Housing and Local Government ).
A study of the complete texts of these documents shows that drink­
ing water standards, although they are similar., have not the same degree
of precision or jsiterL §jjfefiifefi r&t J;tm •fasc'the ^ Rmbs-rr Slra^es^.'Dfvtlis European
Community. Moreover, some provisions are "based simply on the European standards of the World Health Organization, and others on a more or les3 comprehensive system of national legislation.
If the parameters selected are classified tinder six headings - organoleptic factors, physical and chetaical factors, "biological factors, undesirable and toxic factors , bacteriological and virological factors , and radiological factors, it can be seen that the organoleptic factors are seldom taken into account , and that , as regards the intrinsic na­ ture of the water, i.e. its physical and chemical properties, consider­ able differences exist between one country and another.
They are, however, almost unanimous as regards toxic substances> although, in general, ' the various regulations do not take ac­ count of the results of recent research into the long-term health risks arising from the persistence of certain substances in water.
LIoreover; all Member States are concerned to protect the consumer at all costs against microbial contamination. All the regulations place particular emphasis on bacteriological properties ; the virological aspects contained in the World Health Organization standards of 1971 are not systematically taken into account.
In the case of radioactivity, the Member States generally refer to the measures recommended by the agencies specializing in this field, especially to the basic standards drawn up in connection with the Eur­ atom Treaty.
It should be noted that several States sre taking steps to limit residual additives persisting after treatment of the water.
The discrepancies noted in the national legislations of Member States on the quality of water intended for human consumption are an obstacle to trade . within th<s Community and thus have a direct bear­ ing on the functioning of the Common Market . It i3 therefore essen-
tial, in the light, of the .ESC Treaty, that the different legislations be harmonize3, Such harmonization wi.'.l else iaa^e it possible to complete the projects planned in the European Community's Action Programme on water intended for human consumption.
While it is certain that the Standards of the World Health Organi­
zation can provide p.n essential foundation for any national legislation,
it must "be said that these provisions do not meet present-day . Acquire­ ments, particularly as a new era has "begun in the definition of standards.
Since the WIIO standards vere fixed, and in spite of recent re­
vision, the significance to health tightly attached to the presence of metallic ions in drinking water -has increased considersbly and is now
much more important than that envisaged when the standards were drafted.
The same remark could "be made with reference to other groups of gubsti-nces, in particular organic and argent-metallic iuicro-pollutacts.
Furthermore, another very important factor is that the properties of the wpter, available are often altered, by the- .eonsmasr with a view to protecting his domestic supply system. This problem, which was not envisaged by ths WHO, has been studied i:i detail by the competent de­ partments of the Commission. ■
Leaving aside the general use ol bacteriological standards , which provide a better safeguard for the consumer in the immediate future , each Member State has selected vhet appeared to be the best parameters having regard to local conditions. So long a3 the countries remained autonomous as regards water supplies because their own resources were adequate , standardization often only meant finding the solution to a domestic problem. • Today the situation is ■ changed. Because of the increase in demand, associated with -copulation growth rind nswhabits and
requirements, former sources are insufficient; surface water must be used. However., such water has many uses r.r.d the rivers and streams rust henceforth cope simultaneously with widely differing requirementb including those of navigation, the disposal of industrial and vrban re­ fuse, and that of water supplies.
Where international rivers are concerned, it evidently.becomes necessary to compare the measures needed and to coordinate facilities for appraising the situation. This explains the contiguous efforts made over the past 20 years to maintain or restore a raw water quality consistent with the production of drinking water. A standardized system of monitoring for each basin was therefore devised and a rrturn to the previous position is extremely unlikely.
Considerable reserves of ground water are now also being drawn on, supplied on a commercial basis and exported to countries of the European Community and also to non-member countries. This is particularly
true of table waters. In recent years9 these exchanges have raised questions of a technical, legal and medical nature.
Another important aspect very much in the limelight is the use of softening systems to modify the composition of water supplied to the consumer. The remarkable grc-'h in these systems, due to the pressure of changes made in the methods of satisfying normal demand, is taking place, because of the inadequacy of existing regiilations, in a partial legal vacuum. In view of the equipment and products being used, this question is at present as important, on an international scale, as that of the treatment of ground water in containers made of material of varying stability.
It xs therefore not merely the quality of the source water which is at issue, "but that of the finished product on which the consumer is directly dependent. This situation requires that existing national regulations , which often refer to the non-mandatory standards of the World Health Organization, should he harmonized and supplemented if necessary "by a directive drawn up "by the European Communities.
In relation to the international standardisation of the quality of water supplies, the World Health Organization and the Commission of the
European Communities have powers to define standards the former only in the form of non-binding recommendations, the latter in the form of mandatory ^ e- cdhdoriicd- with secondly proble-.s relating to the quality of raw water intended for the production of drinking water, and with prohibitions or limited toler­ ances referring to the discharge of certain substances resulting from industrial activities or urban sewage.
To sum up, the enactment of this directive is in keeping with general rethinking on the subject of water quality and is intended to reconcile the conflicting needs of productivity on the one hand and public health on the other; these reeds are linked with the necessity to use surface waters which must serve several purposes simultaneously
( in particular navigation and the drainage of , or -otluJx^'Ifo-fcBr )*
This draft directive sent to the Council deals with the standards applicable to the quality of water intended for human consumption. It
also covers drinking water as such and water used in preparing food and in the food manufacturing industry, with the exception of natural mineral
waters and medicinal waters, recognized as such, and also of aerated waters .
Water intended for human consumption must possess a certain number of properties, shown in the appended tables.
The parameters selected form a coherent whole on the basis of which
the properties of water intended for human consumption can be logically defined. Toxic substances and noxious germs are given priority, as
shown in the Commission's environmental programme, but they must be
integrated vith another group of parameters which, while not having the
seme priority, often condition the behavior and effect of toxic substances
and noxious germs . For that reason , in order to view the problem objectively , they must be taken into consideration. Five types of parameter Lave
therefore been shown in the tables appended to the draft directive.
The choice of parameters was based on several criteria . Thay relate to;•• ♦. .
--cssoiriiv-l health recfilrotaerltaj ife''this:-cenn?ctfon Kxxinutf Adiaio3iblo Con- contEwt-ims < (M/lC)*.iwore?i>izecV foric.ll pollutants "taiS I'tiniiaiia Required Con-
aV^otvkrrvttous (liRC)** vroro Irid downt-for- calcium, nagncniua, Mcarbonates, chlorides and sulphates#
- the need to consider special local situations (climate, hydro-
geology ) j and the concern of the responsible authorities to be able
to take appropriate action in exceptional circusstancos (natural catac-
iropha^floods). To this end it io poaniblc to incorporate Exceptional Maximum Admissible Concentrations (FMAC)*-4*
- the wish to improve the quality of vater intended for h.iman con­ sumption. The Guide Levels (GL)*tt** chosen represent target quality objectives .
It is necessary to define and agree on terminolgy to be used within the Community in order to eliminate the ambiguities of tersdiiologies at ■oregent in use both at national aud international levels.
ti e concentration below which a substance in water
cannot , in the course of continuous ingestion * cause or directly
or indirectly result in an identifiable effect harmful to health
in a statistically representative sample of the population involved .
(MF.C): the minimum concentration of a substance ; the presence of which is essential for preventing the occurrence of identifiable harmful effects in a statistically representative sample of the population involved, either directly or indi­ rectly, as a result of repeated ingestion.
+++) (EMAC): the exceptional maximum admissible concentration which may be authorized locally by the relevant authorities -, either temporarily in view of particular meteorological conditions ,
' or permanently in view of geographical or geological conditions.
++++) ( GL): the concentratio) . of a given ", substance in .x.-ator uhith .tt is ttdvisabr©not to.e::sa6&i<v.■ •■ .
The considerations underlying the choice of the different parameters are based on present scientific knowledge of the effects produced by water pollutants or by substances contained in vater on the population
in general or on specific population grotvps (children, aged persons, the sick ...).
This scientific knowledge relates both to the immediate effects and also to the long-term consequences. Since there are still considerable gaps in our knowledge in this area it is necessary to be very cautious in deciding what levels to select.
The updating of technical and scientific knowledge will necessitate a five-yearly revision of these standards. Moreover, a request for a partial revision may be made, either my a Member State or in answer to a proposal from the Commission, particularly with reference to Exceptional Maximum Admissible Concentrations ! these must be of a temporary nature .
With reference to tiie monitoring of these standards , representative sampling and a recognised system of analysis should ensure that meaningful and comparable results are obtained.
Spot; sr-EpliiiSj^uroaiiy only rsihglorsampleS, oh the- bacis of
uhich -'.multiple - tests are carried out , should be abandoned in favour of multiple sampling on which only a f:-w tests , and not all , are bc-se;d.
The size of the population involved and the capacity of the source of supply, should also bo .considered.
Moreover, the consumer, in order to ensure his own acenity and to protect his domestic distribution system, sometimes modifies his waiter supply. Since this modification has an effect on both health and the
safety of installations , it is essential that the sampling after rinsing . which is normally practised, should be preceded by an initial sampling
of vater which has stagnated in the pipework#
There is , therefore , an order of priority among the parameters determining the frequency of sampling and analyses. This order of priority is taken into account in the system of standard analyses already in use in certain Community countries. Three types of analysis, Aa B, C of increasing complexity , are selected : ( see Annex II )
- Analysis A constant monitoring of distribution networks supplied from either
- underground , stable water with the' usual protection perimeters ('analysis Al)
- surface or mixed water (analysis A2)' . subdivided according to the size fofethe .BuppSy :
Analysis" 'B regular systematic monitoring , to supplement the monitoring by analysis Al and a2. " whatever the origin of the water .
- Analysis t occasional tests in exceptional or accidental cir­ cumstances , complementary to analyses A and B.
The frequency of these standard analyses is determined by two er.sential factors :
- for analyses A?a3ad -B» tbe; capacity of the ins tallation and- the '-Size of the population served,
- for analysis'' Cj . the source 'V^iVt^r^bility and the hazzai-ds •• threatening it , regardless of the size of the population served and the .capacity 'df the installation .
With reference to the analytical techniques themselves, a number of sampling methods ha.vc been suggested which take account both of the most recent technical advances and of conditions found in some laboratories
which are not yet adequately equipped.
The Council of the European Communities, "
HAVING REGARD to the Treaty establishing the European Communities , and in particular Article 100 thereof,
HAVING REGARD to the proposal from the Commission,
HAVING REGARD to the opinion of tha European Parliament ,
HAVING REGARD to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
WHEREAS in view of the increasing use of water intended for human consumption, it is necessary to lay down quality standards with which such water must comply,
VHER3WS national legislation relating to the quality of water intended for human consumption differs from one Member State to anothera
these discrepancies being an obstacle to trade within the Community and therefore having a direct bearing on the functioning of the Common Market ,
WHEREAS the Programme of Action of the European Communities on the Environment (l) provides for the setting of standards for toxic chemical substances and for germs which endenger health and are present in water intended for human consumption, and also for the definition of physical, chemical and biological parameters corresponding to the different uses of such water and in particular to drinking water, •
0J no C 112 of 20 December 1973
on the harmonizaticn of the legislation of Member States
relating to the use- and marketing of natural mineral waters lays do-.jn special rules for such waters , and whereas , further- mere, it 33 necessary to exclude medicinal and aerated waters from thj scope of this directive ,
the values fixed for certain parameters must he lower than the concentration "below which substances in the water cannot , in the course of continuous ingestion , cause or directly
or indirectly result in an identifiable effect haimful to health in a statistically representative cample of the pop­ ulation involved (Maximum Admissible Concentration ) ,
the values fixed for certain obher parameter's must be equal to or greater than the mi;n:a.oi concentration in wat. ;r of a
substance, the presence of which is essential for preventir>5 the occurrence of identifiable harmful effects in a statis­
tically representative sample of the population involved, either directly or indirectly , as a result of repeated , ingestion (Minimum F.equired Concentration).,
values lower than the Guide Level values (the concentration in water o*: a given substance which should ideally not be exceeded) must be considered to be entirely satisfactory,
in crier to achieve a certain flexibility in the application of this directive , the possibility jaust be left to Member States to foresee derogations to the present directive to take account of special, specific situations ..
in order fully to attain the objectives relating to quality . and particularly to check thetrue concentrations of the different parameters, it iJ necessary to provide that Manbor States take the steps required to ensure regular monitoring of the quality of water intended for human consumptions
WHEREAS the technical specifications defined in the annexes to this directive must be rapidly updated to take account of technical progress, and whereas, in order to facilitate the application of the measures necessary for this purpose, provision mast
be made for a procedure establishing close cooperation betwen tho Member States and the Commission within the Canr.itte^
responsible for adaptation of this Directive to technical progress ,
This Directive dc-als with the ctnxidards which water intended for human ccns;irtrption must satisfy.
For the purpose of this Directive, water intended for human con­ sumption shall mean water, used for that purpose, either in its original
state or after treatment to codify its physico-chemical structure'," Regardless of origin , private wells and drill-holes in patticular . " It shall include :
- water supplied to the consumer by a public mains system,
- water stored or delivered in "bottles or other containers ,
- water used, for washing containers or in the preparation or pre­ servation of jfoodstuffs , including ice-crean.s and the preparation of drinks, aerated or otherwise.
This Directive shall not apply:
a) to m£nerrl waters recognized as such "by the Health Authorities in accordance vith the provisions of the Council Directive on the hanrmonisation°^ 1:^le laws of the Member States relating to the
use a.id marketing of natural mineral vaters , Directive of ... (+)
b) to medicinal waters recognized as such by the relevant Health Authorities and supplied and used for therapeutic purposes.
 c) to aerated waters.
The Member States shall fix values applicable to water intended for human consumption for all the parameters shown in Annex I. The values to "be fixed may not "be greater than the values shown in the Maximum Admissible Concentration columns. They shall be equal, to or greater than the values shown in the Minimum Required Concentration columns,
With reference to the values given in the Guide Level eoltzmns, the Member States shall fix limits based on those shown in those
columnsj any concentration less than that provided for in the
Guide Level columns shall be considered to be entirely satisfactory.
j'n interpreting the values shown in columns 3>^s5 of the tables in Annex I* account shall be taken of any references in column 6v ,rComments."
The Member States shall take the steps required to ensure that water intended for human consumption conforms to the above values.
The Member States may make provision for departures from the terms of this Directive in order to take account of;
• a) situations arising from the nature and structure of the ground , in the geographical area from vhich the source in question
b) situations arising from exceptional climatic conditions. -
When a Member State intends to make a departure as provided for in l)a) above, it shall inform the Commission accordingly within two months stating the reasons therefor.
The Member Str-t.es may make provision for Exceptional Maximum Admis­ sible Cor.eventrations where such a possibility id mentioned in the
' Comments' col'itnn of Annex I.
By Exceptional Maximum Admissible Concentration is meant the maxi­ mum admissible concentration which may be authorized locally by the relevant authorities , either teirpora?. ily in vinw of particular meteorological conditions, or permanently in view of geographical or ecological conditions.
In no case shall the departures taken by Member States by virtue of this Article exempt them from the conditions imposed for the pro­ tection of public health.
Vhen a Member State intends to make a departure as provided for in 1)b) above, it shall inform the Commission accordingly within eight dn.ys of the appearance of the exceptional clime-tic corditions and shall state the reasons and the period involved.
The Member Ctr.tep shall take all necessary ste^s to ensure regular monitoring of the quality of water intended for human consume t ion 3 par­ ticularly in order to check thetrue concentration of the different parameters measured.
Were such monitorirg is based on sampling and anal/sis, the fre­ quency of sampling shall be determined by th^ relevant national authori­ ties ; :'.t r;hall bo based on thecapacity of the water supply installation , the sire of the population eerved and on special circumstances such as , in particular ,, periods of drought or flooding and the risk of epidemics .
For such monitoring, the Member States shall as far as possible use
the standard model analyses given in Annex II and the analytical methods shovn in Annex III .
Any changes which are necessary in order to adapt the Aimexos of this Directive to tak.? account of scientific and technical progress shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 9..
a) A Coicmittee on the Adaptation to Technical Progress of the Direc­ tives on the quality of water intended for human consumption, hereinafter called "the Committee", is hereby set up; it shall consist of representatives of th2 Member States with a represen­ tative of the Ccnaaission as Chairman.
b) The Committee shall adopt its own rules of procedure.
Where the procedure laid down in this Article is to be followed, matters shall be referred to the Committee by the Chairman, either on his own initiative or at the request of th'i representatire cf a Member State .
The representative of the Commission shall submit to the Committee
a draft cf the measures to be adopted. the Committee shell deli­ ver its Opinion on the draft within a time iisit set by tb* Chair­ man having regard to the urgency of the matter. Opinions shall be adopted by a majority of Ul votes , the votes of Member States beirg weighted a3 provided in Article 1U8 (2) of the Treaty. Tha Chairman shall not vote .
The Commission shall adopt the measures envisaged where they are in accordance with the Opinion of the Committee.
b) Where the measures envisaged are not in accordance with the Opinion of the Committer, or if no Opinion is adopted, the Commission shall without delay propose to the Council the measures to be adopted. The Council shall act by a qualified majority .
c) If, within three months of the proposal "being submitted to it, the Council has not acted, the proposed measures shall be adopted by the Commission.
The Member States shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the
application of the measures taken by virtue of this Directive shall in
no case have the effect of allowing any further deterioration , directly
or indirectly, in the present quality of the waters referred to in this Directive .
Annexes I, II and III shall form an integral part of this Direc­ tive .
e.) Member States shs11 put into force the ]avs, regulations and admin­ istrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive ar.i
its Annexes within two years of its notification and shall forth­ with inform the Commission thereof.
b) Member States shall communicate to the Commission the texts of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive.
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Tables A to E
Standard analyses
Reference methods of analysis
A Organoleptic factors
C Biological factors
D Undesirable or toxic factors
E Microbiological factors
Admissible Required comiESTS Concentration Concentration
possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
replaced in certain circums- tances by a transparency test,
with Secchi disc reading in meters
relate to palatability tests
possible recourse to E.Î1.A.C.
hydrometric title Ca: mg/l
possible recourse to E.M.A.C. corresponding resistivity va­ lues in ohms/cm 25OO - 800
possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
possible recourse to E.M.A.C. possible recourse to E.M.A.C. possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
NO and NO ) Si02 mg/l
possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
Il,5/1for'bottledorother
water used for mixing babies* bottles
possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
5 mg/l above the natural level
Dissolved oxygen Oxidability
possible recourse to E.M.A.C, measured when heated and in acid medium
50fj of ini­ tial dissol-
the reason for any increase in the usual concentration
must be investigated
Level Admissible Required Concentration Concentration
Possible recourse to E*M,A.C.
Possible recourse to E.LUl.C.
M.A.C» varies according to · average temperature in geo- graphical area concerned
possible recourse to E.M.A.C.
possible recourse to E.Î1.A.C.
Polycyclic aromatic
hydrocarbons Phenol index
2000 after 16 hrs of contact at consumer outlet
Pescicidee and related products
Other organo-
Level Admissible Required Concentration Concentration
By peeticides and associated products is meant:
Total coliforms Fecal coliforme Fecal streptococci
of the a ÎSS sample
: treated wai- ter
not disin-
(3) On condition that enough samples are analyzed and results are 95Ί0 uniform
(4) Per typo of fcactorio^ phage
disinfected fected
not dis- disin- infected fected
Enteropathogenic viruses
treated water
not disin-
(4) Per type of "bacte- riophage
of the
not dis-
infected fected disinfected fected
Parameters to be considered, Frequency of standard analyses, Sampling ,
Comments on the storage of samples 1
Conductivity Conductivity
mixed water
Palatability Température
Sulphates Sulphates Chlorides Chlorides Nitrates Kitrates Ammonia
1 – Parameters to "be considered
Current monitoring of the distribution networks
'upplementary to A1 and
Conductivity Total mineral
111 special situations in case of accidents-
suppleraentary to A and B
i'ur&j.dity Cdour
Palatability Température
A2 surface or mixed water
Systematic monitoring supplementary to Λ1 and A2
Dissolved oxygen Oxidizability
in case of accidents supplementary to A and Β
Dissolved oxygen Oxidizability Chemical oxygen demand (COD) Bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD )
Total carbon (TOC) Substances extractable in chloroform
All undesirable or toxic factors presumed present
Total coliforms Fecal coliforms
Fecal bacteriophages Viruses - Amoeba Animalcules
Total coliforms Fecal coliforms
Total coliforns Fecal coliforms
Anionic detergents + obiers presumed preseli;
Total coliforms Fecal coliforms
1 - Parameters to be considered (continued)
Current monitoring of the distribution net- works supplied "by
periodic _ Occasional monitoring; in special situations ror
 2 - Frequency of standard, analyses
Current monitoring of distribution networks supplied by ground water
Current monitoring of distribution networks supplied by surface or mixed water - very limited or only one supply .
(i) with protective perimeter *
recommended quarterly
quarterly monthly daily
six-monthly quarterly weekly
annually
As required - to be determined by the
compétent health authorities
(ii) without protective perimeter * - large supply
Systematical periodical monitoring, supplementary to Aí and A2
c1;·-■ Occasional monitoring in exceptional situations or in ca3e of accident* supplementary to A1 , A2 and Β ·
*) Tho protective perimeter set up on the basis of a geological report is a defined area around a water supply sour­ ce: spring water, ground water, surface water, A distinction is drawn between:
- tjie_inaaediate protective, perimeter, which is fenced off and within which all activity is forbidden, and - the cuter protective perimeter within which activity is forbidden or subject to regulation.
VIn the case of supplies drawn directly from a riverf protection is ensured within an approximate zone inside
which the discharge of waste water should be avoided or, at least ma$ only be permitted after extra treatment.
In order to carry out typical analyses it is necessary to take samples of sufficient quantities of Vfiter with equipment designed for this purpose.
a) Bacteriological examination
Samples of the water should be taken in sterile jars :
- in searching for germs , fecal contamination tests ; a sample
of 500 cm3 of water
- in searching for salmonella, a sample of 1000 CTP.3 of water - in searching for viruses , a sample of 10,000 cm3 of water
b) Chemical examination
- Type A analysis : a sample of 1000 cm3 of water in clean glass
- Type B analysis : a sample of 2000 cm3 of water
- Type C analysis : a sample of 3000 cm3 of water in pyrex type
jars with ground stoppers divided as follows:
- 1000 cm3 in searching for toxic or undesirable substances
- 2000 cm3 fcr an analysis of organoleptic , physico-chemical
or biological factors.
a) Generallyspeaking,samplesshouldpreferablybestoredbydeep freezing
b) Inthecasecftoxicorundesirablesubstances,itissometimes necessary, depending on the element being sought, to use preserving agents which will be added to the sample either when it is taken or
m the laboratory.
c) Watersamplesformicrobiologicalanalysesshouldbetakenin sterile jars end kept in a cold temperature (0°C) during the journey to the laboratory. If possible, the analysis should take place immediately on arrival at the laboratory or, at the latest, U8 hours after the sample is taken.
Reference methods of analysis
Organoleptic factors Physico-chenical factors Biological factors Undesirable or toxic factors
Microbiological factors
For the parameters indicated by an asterisk, parameters cerumen to
water destined for human consumption and to surface waters to be
used for the production of drinking water, the analytical reference methods are currently being studied within the framework of the prepar­ ation of a directive on analytical methods regarding the quality
of surface waters to be used for the production of drinking water.
Turbidity Odour
Palatability Successivedilutions Testedatlk°Cor25°C
Reference methods of analysis
 PH Conductivity Total mineral
Atomic absorption Atomic absorption Flame te3t
Absorption spectrophotometry using a specific reagent
Acidimetry on mathyl orar-ge *
Absorption spectrophotometry using a specific reagent «
Absorption spectrophotometry using molybdosilicic acid with or witlicut reduction
Total organic carbon (TCC)
KKnO^ toiling for 10 minutes in an acid medium
Dissolved oxygen Oxidizability
Mineral oils and polycyclie aromatic cartons
Phenol index Anionic ' detergents
Pesticides and related products
Absorption spectrophotometry using reduced phosphomolybdic acid
formation of methylene
Rho&amihe B Absorption spectrophotometry *
Fecal coiiform
After heating the spraple to 80 C a sporo count by - seeding in a medium with glucose, sulphite
and iron, counting the black-halo colonies
- membrane filtration , deposition of the inverted filter on a medium with glucose,
sulphite ana iron covered with agar, count
of black colonies
- distribution in tubes of differential reinforced
clostridial medium, reinccuiation of the black tubes in a medium of litmus-treated
milk, count according to KPN #
Membrane and culture filtration on a specific medium (e.g. Chapman's hypersaline medium). Guilin 's process
Filtration concentration, by flocculation or centrifugation and identification. Concentration by filtration on a membrane, microscopic examination, test of pathogenicity. Macroscopic or microscopic examination
The incubation period is generally 24 to '18 hours except for total cc&nts when it is 1+8 to 72 hours .
stand for en
ForbundsrepubliIdeen Tyskland s
- 1969 , 4 . udgave . Brkt eriologisk undorsagelse af vrndf orsyningen ( Depart­ ment of Health and Social Security , Welsh Office , Ministry of Housing
and Local Government ).
Total- kulstof ( COT)
Cyanider Totalchrom Kobber
Bly Svovlbrinte
efter isolering
vand des- inficeret
kuldioxid fluor
Totalorganisk kulstof ( COT )
Cyanider Totalchrom Kobber
