1 . In its letter of 24 October 1972 addressed to the President of the • Commission, which was transmitted to the Council on 24 November 1972-j.;
the Mission of the Philippines to the European Communities requested that the Community grant generalized preferences ;in respect of cotton textiles and substitute products to the Philippines, although that country is hot a signatory to the Long-^erm Arrangement regarding • international trade in cotton textiles (LTA).
2. It should "be recalled in this connection that the Community, in its offer concerning generalized preferences , restricted the granting ; of such preferences in respeot of cotton textiles and, substitute -products to those developing countries which were signatories of the LTA. ' <. However, in its revised offer, the Community accepted that preferences
for those products could also be granted to countrj.es,,which were not, ; I
signatories , on condition that such countries entered into commitments, with the Community similar to those contained in the said Arrangement. The Community thus granted preferences in respect .of- cotton textiles and substitute products as from 1 January 1973 to Afghanistan, * Bangladesh, and Thailand, which entered into an undertaJcing with the. Community to respect the conditions set out in the letter which . appears as an Annex^.
3. The preparatory work on the Commission^ proposals for generalized preferences 'for 1973 was already at too. adyanoed a stage when the - ,■ , application from the Philippines arrived for it to be taken;.into con­ sideration. That is why the Commission is now putting forward a separate proposal . .
4. The Philippines * po^ition.as regards the ; exporting of cotton- textiles and substitute products is oomparable to that , of Afghanistan , : ' Bangladesh and Thailand. During 19<?8.,.,1969* and 1970 there were no•
1Replies have been received from Afghanistan and Thailand; that of Bangladesh has not yet arrived.
 imports of "these products into the Community from the Philippines.
Consequently, the addition of the Philippines to the list of those benefiting from preferenoes for cotton textiles and substitute products would have no effect on the level of the ceilings. Moreover, in view of the small volume ( 11 tons ) of imports during 1971 » a*id the very restricted opportunities for the Philippines to export these products to the Community, the granting of preferences to that country for cotton textiles should not give rise to any economic problem during
the next few years .
The Commission therefore proposes that the Philippines "be included in the list of countries to which generalized preferences are granted for cotton textiles and substitute products, subject to the same undertaking as that given earlier by Afghanistan , Bangladesh and Thailand .
. As regards the procedure to be followed in order to arrive at an arrangement with the Philippines, the Commission is of the opinion
that the procedure^ of an exchange of letters followed in the oase of Afghanistan , Bangladesh and Thailand could again be adopted . The text of the letter to the Philippine authorities, shown in the Annex,
is the same as that sent to the authorities of those three countries except as regards the date on which the generalized preferences are to become operative. In this connection it should be noted that the second recital of the proposal states that "such an undertaking has been given", which is not yet the case; that being so, the publication and entry into force of the said Regulation should be deferred until such ah undertaking has in fact been given.
The Commission is of the opinion that the case of the Philippines should not be dissociated from that . of the other three countries­
.concerned. Only the delay in lodging the Philippines* application prevented it from , being considered at the same time as those of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Thailand.
The problems raised by the Philippines' enjoyment of preferences for cotton textiles and substitute products are in any case exactly the same as those connected with the extension of preferences for those products to the said three countries.
It should therefore be possible to grant preferences to the Philippines for the products in question in accordance with the exceptional procedure adopted by the Council in^ the case of Afghanistan., Bangladesh and Thailand at its meeting of 18–19 December 1972, of which the detailed rules
of application were set out in a statement contained in an annex to the minutes of the meeting.
6. On the basis of the foregoing, the attached proposal for a Regulation, which is submitted for the approval of the Council, grants generalized tariff preferences to the Philippines by amending Regulations (EEC) Nos 2763/72 (Tariff quotas) and 2764/72 (oeilings) concerning cotton textiles and substitute products. It should be noted that these Regulations expire on 30 September 1973.
 Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE COUNCIL.
No ..../73 of
amending Regulation (EEC) No 2763/72 opening, allocating and providing for the administration of Community tariff quotas for certain textile products originating in developing countries, and Regulation (EEC) No 2764/72 establishing I preferential tariffs in respect of certain textile products originating in developing countries
HavingregardtotheTreatyestablishingtheEuropeanEconomicCommunity, and in particular Article' 113 thereof, . " 5 ' ' V - r
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
1 WhereasunderCouncilRegulation(EEC)No2763/72 of1$December1972'
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of Community tariff quotas for certain textile products originating in developing countries, and Regulation .No 2.764/72 of 19 December 1972 establishing preferential tariffs in respeot of oertain textile products originating
in developing countries, the Common Customs Tariff duties are totally suspended in respect of the said products originating in the countries which are signatories of the Long-term Arrangement regarding international trade in cotton textiles or possibly in the countries which enter into under­ takings with the Community Bimilar to those in that Arrangement ; whereas such an undertaking has been given by the Republic of the Philippines! whereas it thus appears appropriate to add the Philippines to the lists of countries contained in Annex B to each of the above-mentioned Regulations ; whereas this addition does not, however, entail any adjustment of the
size of the quotas, Community ceilings, or maximum amounts because during the reference year in question, there were no exports from the Philippines to the Community;
"The Philippines" is inserted in each of the lists of developing countries which enjoy generalized tariff preferences for certain textile
products, contained in Annex B to Council Regulations (EEC) Nos 2763/72 and 2764/72 of 19 December 1972.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels , For the Council
The President
the granting to that country of generalized preferences for cotton textile products and products treated as such.
In response to the wish expressed by your Government that the
Community should grant generalized preferences to your country for cotton
textile products and products treated aa such, I have in the first place the honour to recall that under the terms of the offer made "by the CommunityattheUnitedNationsConferenceon"tradeandDevelopmentin:■3, . 19691 according to which preferences for cotton textiles covered .by the . Long-term Arrangement would he granted to the countries enjoying .. j generalized preferences which are signatories to the Long^term Arrangement, and for the duration of the said Arrangement. # Nevertheless^ under-the ...3 terms of the same offer, preferences may also he granted«during^the s.ajne.-.- period, in accbrdance with Conditions and detailed rules of impleipenjbation to be laid down hi–laterally,"!to countries enjoying generalized preferences which are not signatories to the Long-term Arrangement , but which undertake vis–a–vis the Community commitments similar to those existing under the said Arrangement.
instructed to inform you that the Community is prepared to grant your country generalized preferences for cotton textiles and products treated as such on the conditions set out below. The acceptance of these con­ ditions by your Government would be considered by the Community to be a commitment similar, as far as your country is concerned, to those existing
under the Lon^-term Arrangement binding the present beneficiary countries enjoying preferences for cotton textiles.
In the period Silring which these preferences are granted, the Commission reserves the right in the event of threatened or actual
disruption of the market , to adopt protective measures with regard to exports from your country of cotton textiles and products treated as such in accordance with a procedure and rules similar to those provided for in Article 3 of the Long-term Arrangement regarding international trade in cotton textiles.
to the authorities of the Philippines on
The Community doesmoi consider it necessary^ in the present cir­ cumstances and without prejudice to its positions in relation to other countries, to propose to your Government as a "similar commitment", the conclusion of a "bilateral agreement of the type concluded under Article 4 of the Long-term Arrangement with certain countries enjoying Community generalized preferences for cotton textile products .
As the duration of the Community generalized^preferences for cotton textile products and products treated as such is at present limited to ' the duration of the Long-term Arrangement, the generalized preferences can , at the present stage , only "be granted to your country , as to the other beneficiary countries, until 30 September 1973. This time-limit' in no way prejudices such measures as may be taken at a later stage by the Community in respect of the period after that date.
In order that it may be possible to include yoilrrcountryramong
the beneficiaries of generalized preferences for the products in question, I should be grateful if you would kindly confirm as rapidly as possible your Governmentfs agreement to the foregoing.
adding the Philippines to the list of developing countries, pursuant to Regulation (EEC) Nos 2763/72 and 2764/72
(Submitted to the Council by the Commission)
1 . In its letter of 24 October 1972 addressed to the President of the Commission, which was transmitted to the Council on- 24 November 1972,
the Mission of the Philippines to the European Communities requested that the Community grant generalized preferences in respect of cotton textiles and substitute products to the Philippines, although that country is not a signatory to the Long«-term Arrangement regarding international trade in cotton textiles (LTA).
2. It should be recalled in this connection that the Community, in its offer concerning generalized preferences , restricted the granting of such preferences in respect of cotton textiles and substitute produots to those developing countries which were signatories of the LTA. However, in its revised offer, the Community accepted that preferences for those products could also be granted to countries which were not signatories, on condition that such countries entered into commitments with the Community similar to those contained in the said Arrangement . The Community thus granted preferences in respect of cotton textiles and substitute products as from 1 January 1973 to Afghanistan, Bangladesh , and Thailand , which entered into an undertaking with the Community to respect the conditions set out in the letter whioh appears as an Annex^.
3. The preparatory work on the Commission's proposals for generalized preferences for 1973 was already at too advanced a stage when the application from the Philippines arrived for it to be taken into con­ sideration . That is why the Commission is now putting forward a separate proposal.
4« The Philippines* position as regards the exporting of cotton textiles and substitute products is comparable to that of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Thailand . During 1968 , 19^9 * and 1970 there were no
1Replies have been received from Afghanistan and Thailand; that of Bangladesh haa not yet arrived.
 imports of these produots into the Community from the Philippines.
Consequently, the addition of the Philippines to the list of those "benefiting from preferences for cotton textiles and substitute products would have no effect on the level of the ceilings. Moreover, in view of the small volume ( 11 tons ) of imports during 1971 » and the very restricted opportunities for the Philippines to export these products to the Community, the granting of preferences to that country for cotton textiles should not give rise to any economic problem during
the next few years .
The Commission therefore proposes that the Philippines be included in the list of countries to which generalized preferences are granted for cotton textiles and substitute products, subject to the same undertaking as that given earlier by Afghanistan , Bangladesh and Thailand .
. As regards the procedure to be followed in order to arrive at an arrangement with the Philippines, the Commission -is of the opinion
that the procedure of an exchange of letters followed in the case of Afghanistan , Bangladesh and Thailand could again be adopted . The text of the letter to the Philippine authorities, shown in the Annex, is the same as that sent to the authorities of those three countries except as regards the date on which the generalized preferences are to become operative. In this connection it should be noted that the second recital of the proposal states that "such an undertaking has been given", which is not yet the case; that being so, the publication and entry into force of the said Regulation should be deferred until such an undertaking has in fact been given.
Jhe Commission is of the opinion that the case of the Philippines
should not be dissociated from Ijhat.of the other three countries 0 .concerned. - Only the delay in lodging the Philippines' application
prevented it from.being considered at the same time as those of Afghanistan , Bangladesh and Thailand .
The problems raised by the Philippines' enjoyment of preferences for cotton textiles and substitute products are in any case exactly the same as those connected with the extension of preferences for those products to the said three countries.
It should therefore be possible to grant preferences to the Philippines for the products in question in accordance with the exceptional procedure adopted by the Council in the case of Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Thailand at its meeting of 18–19 December 1972, of which the detailed rules
of application were set out in a statement contained in an annex to the
minutes of the meeting.
6. On the basis of the foregoing, the attached proposal for a Regulation, which is submitted for the approval of the Council, grants generalized tariff preferences to the Philippines by amending Regulations (EEC) HOB 2763/72 (Tariff quotas) and 2764/72 (ceilings) concerning cotton textiles and substitute products. It should be noted that these Regulations expire on 30 September 1973.
 Proposal for a REGULATION OF THE COUNCIL,
cdding -the Philippines to "the list of developing ooxxntriss, purswmt to Regulation (3EC) ITos 27*53/72 end 2?o4/72
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas under Council Regulation (EEC) No 2763/72 of 19 December 1972
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of Community tariff quotas for certain textile products originating in developing
countries , and Regulation No 2764/ 72 of 19 December 1972 establishing preferential tariffs in respect of certain textile products originating
in developing countries, the Common Customs Tariff duties are totally suspended in respect of the said products originating in the countries which are signatories of the Long-term Arrangement regarding international trade in cotton textiles or possibly in the countries which enter into under­ takings with the Community similar to those in that Arrangement; whereas such an undertaking has been given by the Republic of the Philippines ; whereas it thus appears appropriate to add the Philippines to the lists of countries contained in Annex B to each of the above-mentioned Regulations; whereas this addition does not , however , entail any adjustment of the
size of the quotas , Community ceilings , or maximum amounts because during the reference year in question, there were no exports from the Philippines to the Community;
"The Philippines" is inserted in each of the lists of developing countries which enjoy generalized tariff preferences for "certain textile
products , contained in Annex B to Council Regulations (EEC) Uos 2763/ 72 and 2764/72 of 19 December 1972.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall he "binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done &t For the Comuinccil
The President
-to the authorities of the Philippines on
the greeting to that country of generalized preferences for cotton textile products and products treated as such.
In response to the wish expressed "by your Government that the
Coccrunity s>?uid grant generalized preferences to your country for cotton
textile products and products treated as such, I have in the first place the hoE-cur to recall that under the ter^s of the offer cade by the Cocmnity at the United Sations Conference on Trade and Development in IJcJj according to w*"*ah preferences for cotton textiles covered "by the Long-ters: Arrangeeiert would be granted to the countries enjoying gesi-eraliz-ed preferences rTn are signatories to the Lcng-tera Arr-srgggiact, ard fcr the duration of the said Arrangesent. Nevertheless, under the teres cf the ss^e offer, preferences~say also "be granted*during the sa^e period, in accordance with corditions and detailed rules of leeantation to be laid daiei bi–laterally, to countries enjoying generalized preferences vMc*> are not signatories to the Len^-tern Arrangement, but which undertake vis–a-^Tis the Ccgmir.ity comitnents sirdlar to those ezisting under the said Arrangement.
In this connection and in response to your application I as instructed to infora you that the Corzrcjiity is prepared to grant your
country generalized preferences for cotton textiles ard products treated as such on the corditions set out below. !Ihe acceptance of these con­ ditions by your Govez^aent would be considered by the Corrrority to be a con-itmerit similar, as far as your country is concerned, to those existing
under the Lcng-ters Arrangement binding the present beneficiary countries enjoying preferences fcr cotton textiles.
In the period Suring which these preferences are granted, the 3sion reserves the right in the event of threatened or actual
disruption of the Efixket, to adopt protective ceasures with regard to eirort3 froa yctr country of cotton textiles acd products treated as such in accordance with a procedure ar^ rules siailar to those provided for in
Article 3 of the Locg-tera Arrangeaerfc regarding international trade in ccttaei textiles.
The Community does^not consider it necessary^ in the present cir­ cumstances and without prejudice to its positions in relation to other countries, to propose to your Government as a "similar commitment", the conclusion of a "bilateral agreement of the type concluded under Article 4 of the Long-term Arrangement with certain countries enjoying Community generalized preferences for cotton textile products .
As the duration of the Community generalizedpreferences for cotton textile products and products treated as such is at present limited to the duration of the Long-term Arrangement, the generalized preferences can , at the present stage , only "be granted to your country , as to the other beneficiary countries, until 30 September 1973. This time–limit in no way prejudices such measures as may be taken at a later stage by the Community in respect of the period after that date . ■
In order that it-may be possible to include yourrcountryretmooig
the benefioiaries of generalized preferences for the products in question, I should be grateful if you would kindly confirm as rapidly as possible your Government's agreement to the foregoing.
