(Communication of the Commission to the Council)
Brussels . 26 February 1975
GENERAL REGIONAL AID SYSTEMS (Communication of the Commission to the Council)
In its 6onrmunication to the Council of 27 June 1973 (1)» the Commission - in application of the provisions of Article 154 of "the Treaty of Accession -
amended and supplemented the principles of coordination defined in its Communication of 23 June 1971 and contained in the first resolution of the
Member States of 20 October 1971 (2).
The Commission undertook, at that time, in application of its powers of decision on state aids and in order to place &11 the Member States in the same situation ih relation to ihe principles t>f coordihation to define , on the basis of these same principles , the principles of coordination valid for all regions of the enlarged Community.
Vfhen the principles of coordination were defined in 1971 and when they were subsequently completed when the Community was enlarged in 1973 , the need to put an end to outbidding in state aids was felt to be most urgent in the most developed regions of the Community. Nevertheless it was, even then, specified that an appropriate solution would be defined to take account of the specific problems posed in each of the other regions .
It is well understood that aids are not the invariable and principal determinant of investment location decisions. A complex set of factors, and particularly socio-economic factors, is involved, and this explains why
even a high level of aid intensity is in certain regions insufficient to attract a great number of new investors. Firms which actually have a choice of location base their decision equally on the location of their suppliers and customers, the availability and quality of man–power, social legislation, company law, the level of pay and taxation, etc., of the different States,
all of which influence, in a permanent way, the operation of establishments*
■ ---- -----, - '-y (1) COM(73) 1110 of 27.6.1973.
(2) OJEC No C 111 of 4.11,1971*
The risks of outbidding must therefore be appraised in a manner which, varies in accordance with the various factors which favour or impede the development of the Community's different regions. This is, moreover, why the Commission, in exorcising its powers under Articles ff of the EEC Treaty, takes account of the fact that the Member States have the best
knowledge at the national level of all the significant facts required to assess the needs of their regions. The Commission is always prepared,
taking account of the general interest , to consider compatible with the common market changes to aid systems , when such changes are justified for example, by problems of employment, unemployment, migration, other valid requirements of regional development policy which may require ,as essential .
national problems, an urgent response.
This cannot prevent a recognition of the fact that outbidding could, par­ ticularly in different social and economic circumstances , be damaging not only for the regions concerned but for the Community as a whole . On the other hand, the observance of a discipline on aids granted in the most developed regions will certainly have favourable effects on the other regions * It is therefore essential to define principles of coordination valid for all regions of the Community, trhile taking account of the specific problems of each of the regions to trhicli this discipline has not until now been applied.
I* Principles of Coordination of General Ifolgional Aid S.ystemd
1* The coordination is valid for all regions of the Community namely: (i) Greenland, Ireland, the "Mezzogiorno" and Northern Ireland}
(ii) West Berlin and the "Zonenrandgebiet":
(iii) the part of French territory which received industrial development grants (primes de ddveloppement induotriel), the aidod areas in the
Italian regions of Friuli-Venezia-Giulia, Trentino-Alto Adige> Vallo d'Aosta, Lazio, Marche, Toscana, Umbria and Veneto insofar as these regions are not included in the. "Mezzogiorno", and for the United Kingdom,
the other parts of the country which were defined as Assisted Areas
 on 1 January 1975 at Section 7 (7) of the Industry Act, 1972, with
the exception of areas classified as Intermediate Areas at that date; (iv) tho special development area in tho north of Denmark, and the
islands of Bornholm, Acre, Samso and Lan,-;cland; (v) tho other refions of the Conmunityi
and takes account of their specific and important problems .
It comes into force on 1 January 1975 is valid for a first period of "jhree years.
Tho ooordination has five principal aspects vriiich form one whole : ceilings of aid intensity differentiated according to the nature and gravity of regional problems, transparency (soe however point 4 below), regional specificity, the sectoral repercussiohs of regional aids and a system of supervision*
T'ho differentiated ceilings for aid intehsity fere fi:ced in net grant equivalent for all the regions lir.tcd at 1 above with the exception of Greenland .
– for Ireland, tho "Ifozzogiorno'', Northern Ireland and for West Berlin;
The ceilings are fixed at the level of tho maximum intensity attainable by measurable aids available tinder regional aid systems in force in these regions on 1 January 1975.
Moreover, for Irfilard; the "!!<■?zzogiorno" and Northern
Ireland, the Commission may ask for tho examination in advance of individual cases if particular sectoral problems or tho functioning of the common market necessitate such an examination; to this ond, tho Commission will bo informed of projects with an investment exceeding 25 million units of account and for which the envisaged aid3 exceed 35$ in net grant equivalent.
for* tho ch. Italian and British aided areas listed at 1 (iii) above
A ceiling of 30$ in net grant equivalent for the total of aids granted to a single investment will "be observed as rapidly as possible and at the latest
before the end of the first period of three years*
- for the "Zonenrandgebiet", referred to at 1 (ii)» and the Danish aided areas listed at 1 (iv) abovet
The ceiling in net grant equivalent is fixed at 25$.
- for the other regions of the Community!
The ceiling remains at 20% in net grant equivalent, but the trend should as far as possible be for a reduotion in the level of aids.
Except in the case of the regions listed at 1 (i) above the intensity ceilings are applicable to the total of regional aids acoorded to a given investment. The level of the ceilings will be re-examined at the end of the period of three
years taking account of experience gained, the evolution of regional situations, especially the trends of unemployment, and of changes in aid systems and in relation to the problems of the combination of regional and seotoral aids. In addition, it will be neoessary to examine during the period of three years the relationship between the level of aids granted and the number of jobs created or maintained.
Derogations from the intensity ceilings may be acoepted by the Commission pro­ vided that the necessary justification is communicated in advance in aocordanoe with the procedure provided for at Article 93 of the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community. The Commission will periodically supply the Council with a list of any such derogations.
I. An essential condition for the coordination and for the appreciation of general aid systems is the transparency of aids and aid systems.
There exist, however, oertain forms of aid which hitherto have not been con­ sidered as transparent, but which nevertheless can be considered as indispensable to development activity in certain regions. It is understood that the pre­ sence or lack of transparency does not prejudge the compatability of these aids
with the Common Market. The Commission will pursue with experts from Member States the teohnical studies already begun with a view to finding standards of measurement capable of making oomparable all forms of regional aids in foroe in the Community. In the light of these studies the Commission will establish
in consultation with the Member States a list of these aids and the
1 conditions for their use. Any new types of aids or changes in existing
aids will "be considered by the Commission in the light of the Btage reached on the studies mentioned in the previous sub-paragraph,
5. Regional specificity will bo implemented in the light of the following principles :
(i) that regional aids do not cover the whole national territory, i.e. general aids may not be granted under the heading of regional aids}
clearly specify, either in geographical criteria, the limits of aided regions or, of aided areas ;
(iii) that, except in the case
granted in a pin-point manner, i.e. to isolated geographical points having virtually no influence on the development of a region?
(ii) that general aid regimes terms or by quantitative # within these , the limits
of growth points, regional aids are not
(iv) that, where problems which are different in kind, intensity or urgency occur, the aid intensity needs to be adapted accordingly;
(v) thr„t the graduation and variation of rates of aid across different areas and regions is clearly indicated.
6. The lack of sectoral specificity in general regional aid systems makes their assessment difficult because of the problems that the sectoral reper­
cussion of these aide may pose at the Community level. Consequently, the Member States and the Commission will examine how account should be taken
of this sectoral repercussion when such problems are posed.
Vlhen an investment benefits from a sectoral aid on a regionally differentiated basis , a regional aid may not be given in respect of the same investment .
(*) with the exoeption of Ireland and the Grand Duohy of Luxembourg which sire considered each as one region.
7. The Commission shall supervise tho application of the coordination principles by means of the a posteriori notification which it will receivo of significant cases of application,,according to a procodure ensuring business secrecy .
8. The results of this application will bo examined periodically with tho senior national officials responsible for aids. The Commission will make an annual ropo.-t to tho Council and the other Community bodies concerned.
9* Tho mothod3 for implementing the principles of coordination defined in the
annexe to the Communication of the Commission of 23 Juno 1971 and supplemented
by tho Communication of tho Commission of 27 June 1973 will apply to tho
extent necessary for the implementation of the principles of coordination
The Commission informs the Council that , in accordance with the powers vested in it by Articles 92 and following of the EEC Treaty, it will from
1 January 1975 apply these principles to general regional aid systems already in force or to be established in tho regions of the Community.
The Commission considers it desirable that tho governments of the Member States modify their first resolution of 20 October 1971 1 concerning
general regional aid systems* to take account of the principles defined a'oovo.
- for Irland, "llezzogiomo", Nordirland ogVestberlin;
