Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
on the opening, allocation and administration of a Community tariff quota for Jerez wines falling within heading ex 22.05 of the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Spain
When the Agreement between the EEC and Spain has been signed
in 1970/ the Community bind oneself to grant a preferential
tariff regime to the importations in the Communitjf.of certain
wineswithorig»ft,nSpain. Attosatisfytothisengagement
the Community has opened each ye^p two tariff quotas at reduced duty rates :
(a) sherry wines
(i) in containers of two* litres ors
AO 000 hi at CCT duty reduced by^QX;
(ii) in. containers of more than two litr«s 310 000 hi at CCT duty reduced by 50%;
it being understood that these wines would remain subject to
the provisions governing the common organization of the market
in wine and especially to the reference price which is applicable to these wines.
However, this regime has been provided only for the importation of these products into the six original Member States, whereas the three new Member States have applied different regimes.
In conformity vith the Act of Accession imports of these products into the new Member States are subject, since 1 July 1977, to the customs duties inscrited into.the Common Customs Tariff.
In this situation, a uniform regime of importation should be established. Hencetheforementionedquotavolumesshouldbe increased in such a manner as to take account of the traditional quantities imported in the new Member States.
This leads to an increase to
- 108 000 hectolitres and 685 000 hectolitres for Sherry-wines .
Because of difficulties encountered in fixing the reference price which - in principle - should have been applicable as from 1 January
1978, the Community has opened, by Regulations (EEC) Nos 3012/77 and 532 P8, four Community tariff quotas.
These quotas cover the period between 1 January and 30 April 1978 and amount in total to 36 000 hi and 228 340 hi .
In order to comply with the Communitites obligation to Spain, it is necessary to open tariff quotas for these products for the period 1 May to 31 December 1978 for volumes amounting to respectively 72 000 hi and 456 660 hi.
This is subject of the annexed proposals.
These Regulation provide for the splitting up of the tariff volumes into two parts, of which the first will be allocated among the
Member States as quota share and the second will be kept as a reserve. In the absence of Community statistics, the initial quota shares
have been calculated on the basis of the most recent statistics on
Spanish exports over a representative period and on Member States' forecasts .
Spanish statistics can be considered to give a rough picture of Community imports of the relevant products.
Because of the inherent particularities in trade in these wines
which, additionaly, are different from one Member State to another,
• the provisions of the Regulation, exceptionnally, do not lay down a common method -of administration .
Annex : 1 proposai for a Council Regulation.
Oft the opettingt allocating and providing for the administration of a Cotnrtl^.'V
Proposal of COUNCILREGULATION(EEC)No"i../78: ';,-:A
M»ity; tariff quota for sherry, falling within heading No £*3,2,05 of the Com*«on
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 43 and 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard' to the opinion of the European Parlia­ ment('),
Whereas on the signing of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and SpaiA (') on 29 June 1970, the Community undertook to grant preferential tariff arrangements for imports into the Community of certain wines originating in Spain, in particular sherry; whereas in order to satisfy this undertaking, the Community has opened each year two tariff quotas, namely :
– 40 000 hectolitres at a duty rate of 40 % of the Common Customs Tariff duties, for sherry in containers holding two litres or less, falling within subheadings ex 22.Q5 C III a) 1 and ex 22-05 C IV a) 1, originating in Spain and *
– 210 000 hectolitres at a duty rate of 50 % of the Common Customs Tariff duties, for sherry in containers holding more than two litres, falling within subheadings ex 22.05 C III b) 1 and ex 22.05 C IV b) 1, originating in Spain ; ■
WherCas these preferential tariff arrangements were laid down Only for imports of these products into the Member States of the Community as originally consti­ tuted ; whereas, under the Act of Accession, importa­ tion of these products into the three new Member States are subject to Common Customs Tariff duties with effect from 1 July 1977 ;. whereas the import arrangements for these products should be uniform throughout the Community; whereas therefore the aforementioned annual quotas should be increased to 108 000 hectolitres and 685 000 hectolitres respec-
_tively; whereas/ £y reasons 0f particular circumstances the Community has already opened Community tariff quotas by regulation ( EEC) Nos 3012/ 77 and 532/78 (4) for the respectively global volumes of 36 000 hectolitees and 228 340 hectoliters for the period 1 January to 30 April 1978; whereas tariff quotas of 72 000 and 456 660 hectoliters respectively should thus be opened for the aforementioned wines for the period 1 May to 31 December 1978 ;
(2) 0J No L 182 of 16.8.1970, p. 2
(3) 0J No L 355 of 31.12.1977, p. 27 (4) 0J No L 74 of 16.3.1978, p. 1.
 Whereas, the imports into the Community of these wines is for the greater part carried out in the last months of each year because
of particular reasons inherent in the method of production and distribution of the product concerned; whereas that as a conse­ quence the volume of the quotas opened for the period 1 January to 30 April 1978 have not been entirely used up; whereas it is necessary to provide exceptionnally for the residual amounts
left over from this period to be taken into consideration with
a view to their use in the period of validity of this Regulation;
Wfc»reas these wines remain subject to the provisions ' governing the common organization of the market in
Vwhereas inclusion in the Community tariff
s^Ould be subject to production of movement
AVttftcate A.E. 1 and a certificate of designation or
•Wn as provided for in Regulation (EEC) No 1120/75 (»); • . '
whereas/Council Regulation (EEC) N6 2506/76 of 29 ' September 1975 laying down special rules for the importation Of products in the wine-gTowjng sector Ifr^TP countnes(D/"introduced
/ Sherry-wines which enter from 1 Hay 1978 the geographic territory of the Commu- nity shall observe on the one hand the reference prices applying to them
on the other hand e ru e 0 °nthe°ther handtherulesof
by which is
iderence price-less cu
Whereas it is in particular necessary to ensure to «H Community importers equal and uninterrupted access the abovementioned quotas and uninterrupted application of the rates laid down for these quotas to
all imports of the products concerned into all Member States until the quotas have been used up ; whereas, having regard to the principles mentioned above, ehf Community nature of the quotas can be respected by
allocating the Community tariff quotas among iKe Member States ; whereas, in order to reflect most accu­ rately the actual development of the market in the products concerned, such allocation should be in proportion to the needs of the Member State*, assessed by reference to both the statistics of each State s imports of the said products from Spain over «
representative period and the economic outlook for Che quota period concerned ; ,
whereas available Community statistics give no infor­ mation on the situation of sherry on the markets ; whereas, however, Spanish statistics for exports o£ these products to the Community during the last few years can be considered to reflect approximately the situation of Community imports ; whereas on' this basis the corresponding imports by each of the Member States during the last three years represent the following percentages of the imports into the Community from Spain of the products concerned:
(1) 0J No L 111 of 30.4.1975, p. 19 (2) 0J No L 256 of 2.1.1976, p. 2
– in containers holding two litres or less :
121 France 0-4 Ireland 2-8 4-9 306
– in containers holding more than two litres : Bénélux
Germany France Ireland Italy
Whereas, in view of these factors and of the estimates submitted by certain Member States, initial quota shares may be fixed approximately at the following percentages :
Sherry in containers holding
two litres more than or less two litres
Denmark 5-05 3-83 Germany 13-20 2-99 ' France 0-31 0-03 Ireland 2-06 0-78
Whereas, in order to take into account import trends for the products concerned in the different Member States, each of the quota amounts should be divided into two tranches, the first tranche being allocated among the Member States and the second forming a reserve intended ultimately to cover the requirements of the Member States which have used up their initial quota shares ; whereas, in order to ensure a certain degree of security to importers in each Member State, the first instalment of the Community quotas should be determined at a level which, under present circum­ stances, may be about 90 % of each of the quota amounts ;
Whereas the initial quota shares of the Member States may be used up at different times ; whereas, in order
1978, the
to take this fact into account and avoid any break in continuity, it is important that any Member State having used up almost the whole of one of its initial quota shares should draw an additional quota share from the corresponding reserve ; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional quota shares is almost entirely used up, and repeated as many times as the reserve allows ; whereas the initial and additional quota shares must be avail­ able for use until the end of the quota period ; whereas this method of administration calls for close cooperation between Member States and the Commis­ sion, which must, in particular, be able to observe the extent to which the quota amounts are used and inform Member States thereof ;
Whereas since the Kingdom
Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union any measure concerning the administration of the quota shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any one of its members,
the Community tariff quotas indicated for each of them" :
1. From 1 May
Common Customs Tariff duties in respect of the sher­ ries mentioned below originating in Spain shall be partially suspended at the levels or within the limits of
of Belgium , the
„exnosCIII■)I and
ex 22.05C III b) I and
u j fr0t0C0' on the definition
methods of administrative cooperation, annexed to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Spain, shall be applicable.
\ V*6 'nc'us'on sherry in the Community tariff quotas referred to in paragraph 1
. fhall be^onditional 'upon production of a movement certificate A.E.1 andTcertificate oF
donation of origin as provided for in Regulation (EEC) No 1120/75 and endorsed iL tne Spanish customs authorities.
The"StrgrTy-wInes whictrenter~fromT'May1978 the geographic territory of the Community shall in addition in order to benefit from these tariff
quotas observe the reference prices applying to them and prices not less than the free-at-frontier reference prices referred to in Regulation (EEC) No 2506/75 and subsequent texts which apply to such prices.
K The quotas laid down in Article 1 shall be divided into two tranches.
, 2. A first tranche of each quota shall be allocated among the Member States ; the
respective shares which shall be valid until 31 / 1978, shall be as follows : – December
sheny 5-4 sherry 5-8
the concept of 'originating products' and on
3. The shares determined in paragraph 2 shall be increased by any remnants of the shares allocated under Regulations ( EEC ) Nos 3012/77 and 532/78 existing on 30 April 1978.
The Member States shall notify the Commission not later than 15 May 1978 of any remnants of the shares allocated to them on the allocation of the quotas opened by the above-mentioned regulations existing on 30 April 1978 .
Sherry falling within subheadings :
4. The second instalment of each quota/ i.e. 7 200 and 45 660 hectolitres respectively shall form the corresponding reserve
to which any remnants of the reserves formed pursuant to Article
2 of Regulations (EEC) Nos 3012/77 and 532/78 existing on 30 April 1978 shall be added, irrespective of the implementation of
1. If 90 % or more of one of the initial shares of a Member State, as laid down in Article 2 (2), has been
exhausted, that Member State shall proceed without delay, by notifying the Commission, to draw a second share equal to 10 % of its initial share, rounded up to the next unit where appropriate, to the extent that the amount in the reserve allows.
2. If, after one or other of its initial shares have been exhausted, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has been used, that Member Stat* shall proceed in the manner specified in para­
graph I to draw a third share equal to 5 % of to initial share, rounded up to the next unit where appro­ priate.
3. If, after one or other of its second shares have been exhausted, 90 % or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used, that Member State shall, in accordance with the same conditions, drawn a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shair be applied until the reserve is exhausted .
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may proceed to draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs, if there is reason to believe that those shares might not be used up. They shall inform the Commission of the reasons which led them to apply this paragraph.
The additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1978.
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 15 / , 1978, the unused portion of their initial share which, on 1 November 1978, is in excess of 20 % of their initial amount. They may return a larger portion if there are reasons for believing that such portion may not be used in full.
quota and, where appropriate, the proportion of their initial share that is being returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep account of the shares opened by Member States in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 and shall inform each of them of the extent to which the reserve has been used as soon as it receives the notifications.
The Commission shall; not later than 20 / 1978, notify Member States of the amount in the reserve after the return of shares pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which uses up the reserve is 'limited to the balance available and, for this purpose, shall specify the amount thereof to the Member State which makes the final drawing.
1. The Member States shall take all measures neces­ sary to ensure that, when additional shares are drawn
pursuant to Article 3, it is possible for charges to be made without interruption against their accumulated shares of the Community quota.
2. The Member States shall ensure that importers of the said goods established in their territory have free access to the shares allocated to them.
3. The extent to which a Member State has used up
its share shall be determined, on the basis of the
imports of the goods in question entered at customs for home use.
On receipt of a request from the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
The Member States shall, not later than 15 November 1978, notify the Commission of the total imports of
the products concerned effected up to 1 November 1978 inclusive, and charged against the Community .
The Member States and the Commission shall coop­ erate closely in order to ensure that this Regulation is
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 May 1978 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member <. States.
For the Council The President
Irland 2,8
ex 22.05 C III a 1 ex 22.05 C IV a 1
ex 22.05Cllia)1 I ex 22.U*CIIIb)1 .. und1,'• und
Duitsland 2,4
Ierland 1,0 0.7
twee liter of minder
on the opening, allocating and providing for the administration of
a Community tariff quota for sherry falling within heading No ex 22.05 of the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Spain
(submitted to the Council "by the Commission)
When the Aqri?ement between the EEC and Spain has been signed
in 197G, the Community bind oneself to grant a preferential
tariff regime the importations in the Community of certain
wines with orig-ti spa-jn. tQ satisfy to this engagement
the Community has o^er^d each ye-^r two tariff quotas at reduced duty rates :
(i) in containers of two Litres oi i ess 40 000 hi at CCT duty reduced by £Q%-
(ii) in containers of more than, two litr.»s 310 000 hi at CCT duty reduced by 50%;
it being understood that trhese wines would remain subject to the provisions governing the common organization of the market
in wine and especially to the reference price which is applicable to these wines.
However/ this regime has been provided only for the importation of these products into the six original Member States, whereas the three new Member States have applied different regimes.
In conformity with the Act of Accession imports of these products
into the new Member States are subject, since 1 July 1977, to
the customs duties inscrited into-the Common Customs Tariff. \
In this situation, a uniform regime of importation should be established. Hence the forementioned quota volumes should be increased in such a manner as to take account of the traditional
quantities imported in the new Member States.
This leads tQ an increase to
- 108 000 hectolitres and 685 000 hectolitres for Sherry-wines .
Because of difficulties encountered in fixing the reference price which - in principle - should have been applicable as from 1 January
1978, the Community has opened, by Regulations (EEC) Nos 3012/77 and 532/78, four Community tariff quotas.
These quotas cover the period between 1 January and 30 April J978 / and amount in total to 36 000 hi and 228 340 hi .
In order to comply with the Communitites obligation to Spain, it is necessary to open tariff quotas for these products for the period 1 May to 31 December 1978 for volumes amounting to respectively 72 000 hl and 456 660 hl .
This is subject of the annexed proposals .
These Regulation provide for the splitting up of the tariff volumes into two parts, of which the first will be allocated among the
Member States as quota share and the second will be kept as a reserve . In the absence of Community statistics, the initial quota shares
have been calculated on the basis of the most recent statistics on
Spanish exports over a representative period and on Member States' forecasts .
Spanish statistics can be considered to give a rough picture of Community imports of the relevant products.
Because of the inherent particularities in trade in these wines which, additionaly, are different from one Member State to another,
the provisions of the Regulation, exceptionnally, do not lay down a common method of administration.
Annex : 1 proposai for a Council Regulation.
 Proposal of
on the opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Commu-; nity tariff quota for sherry, falling within heading No ex 22.05 of the Common
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas on the signing of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Spain (') on 29 June 1970, the Community undertook to grant preferential tariff arrangements for imports into the Community of certain wines originating in Spain, in particular sherry ; whereas in order to satisfy this undertaking, the Community has opened each year two tariff quotas, namely :
■ – 40 000 hectolitres at a duty rate of 40 % of the Common Customs Tariff duties, for sherry in containers holding two litres or less, falling within subheadings ex 22.05 C III a) 1 and ex 22.05 C IV a) 1, originating in Spain and
– 210 000 hectolitres at a duty rate of 50 % of the Common Customs Tariff duties, for sherry in containers holding more than two litres, falling within subheadings ex 22.05 C III b) 1 and ex 22.05 C IV b) 1, originating in Spain ;
Whereas these preferential tariff arrangements were laid down only for imports of these products into the Member States of the Community as originally consti- tuted ; whereas, under the Act of Accession, importa­ tion of these products into the three > new Member States are subject to Common Customs Tariff duties with effect from 1 July 1 977 ; whereas the import arrangements for these products should be uniform throughout the Community ; whereas therefore the aforementioned annual quotas should be increased to 108 000 hectolitres and 685 000 hectolitres respec­
tively ; whereas j-,y re ason of special circumstances the
already opened Community tariff quotas by Regulations (EEC) Nos 3012/77 and 532/78 (4) for the global volumes of 36 000 hectoliters and 228 340
hectoliters respectively for the period 1 January to 30 April 1978; whereas tariff quotas of 72 000 and 456 660 hectoliters respectively should thus be opened for the said wines for the period . 1 May
Community has
 Whereas £or particular reasons inherent in the. method of production and –
distribution of the product concerned, the import of these wines into the Coiuimnity is for the greater part carried out in the last months_of_ each year; whereas as a consequence the volume of the quotas opened.for the period 1 January to 30 April 1978 have not "been completely used up; whereas by way of exception it is necessary to provide for the residual amounts, left
over from this period to he taken into consideration to period of validity of this Regulation;
Whereas these wines remain subject to the provisions governing the common organization of the market in wine ; whereas inclusion in the Community tariff quota should be subject to production of movement certificate A.E. 1 and a certificate of designation or origin as provided for in Regulation (EEC) No
Whereas/Council Regulation (EEC) No 2506/76 of 29 September 1975 laying down special rules for the
importation of products in the wine-growing sector originating in certain third countries(^/introduced the idea of a free-at-frontier reference price, being the
' reference price less customs duties actually levied ;
Whereas it is in particular necessary to ensure to all Community importers equal and uninterrupted access to the abovementioned quotas and uninterrupted application of the' rates laid down for these quotas to all imports of the products concerned into all Member States until the quotas have been used up ; whereas, having regard to the principles mentioned , above, the Community nature of the quotas can be respected by allocating the Community tariff quotas among the Member States ; whereas, in order to reflect most accu­ rately the actual development of the market in the products concerned, such allocation should be in proportion to the needs of the Member States, assessed by reference to both the statistics of each State's imports of the said products from Spain over a representative period and the economic outlook.for the quota period concerned ;
Whereas available Community statistics give no infor­ mation on the situation of sherry on the markets ; whereas, however, Spanish statistics for exports of these products to the Community during the last few years can be considered to reflect approximately the situation of Community imports ; whereas on this basis the corresponding imports by each of the Member States during the last three years represent the following percentages of the imports into the Community from Spain of the products concerned :
"be used during. the
f Sheriy-wines which enter the geog- . raphic territory of the Community from 1 May 1978 shall observe the reference prices applicable to them and also the rules of
by whi ch is
Italy •
cwo litres or less
more than two litres
– in containers holding two litres or less : Bénélux
– in containers holding more than two litres : Bénélux
Germany France Ireland
Whereas, in view of these factors and of the estimates submitted by certain Member States, initial quota shares may be fixed approximately at the following percentages :
to take this fact into account and avoid any break in continuity, it is important that any Member State having used up almost the whole of one of its initial quota shares should draw an additional quota share from the corresponding reserve ; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional , quota shares is almost entirely used up, and repeated as many times as the reserve allows ; whereas the initial and additional quota shares must be avail­ able for use until the end of the quota period ; whereas this method of administration calls for close cooperation between Member States and the Commis­ sion, which must, in particular, be able to observe the extent to which the quota amounts are used and inform Member States thereof ;
Whereas since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union any measure concerning the administration of the quota shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any one of its members,
the Community tariff quotas indicated for each of them : -
whereas, in order to take into account import trends for the products concerned in the different Member States, each of the quota amounts should be divided into two tranches, the first tranche being allocated among the Member States and the second forming a reserve intended ultimately to cover the requirements of the Member States which have used up their initial quota shares ; whereas, in order to ensure a certain degree of security to importers in each Member State, the first instalment of the Community quotas should be determined at a level which, under present circum­ stances, may be about 90 % of each of the quota amounts ;
Whereas the initial quota shares of the Member States may be used up at different times ; whereas, in order
until 31 / 1978, the
Sherry >n containers holding
1. From 1 May
Common Customs Tariff duties in respect of the sher­ ries mentioned below originating in Spain shall be partially suspended at the levels or within the limits of
sherry 5-4 sherry 5-8
sherry 5-5 sherry 6-0
respective shares which shall be valid until i
31 / 1978, shall be as follows : ""December
Sherry {ailing within subheadings :
ex 22.05 C III a) 1 and
ex 22.05 C III b) 1 and
J Protocol on the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and on methods of administrative cooperation, annexed to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and Spain, shall be applicable.
3: .. The 'nc'usi0n of sherry in the Community tariff quotas referred to in paragraph 1
shall be conditional upon production of a movement certificate A.E.I and a certificate of
(Wgnanon of origin as provided for in Regulation (EEC) No 1120/75 and endorsed hy tne Spanish customs authorities.
The Sherry-wines entering the geographic territory of the Community from 1 hay 1978 shall m addition, in order to benefit from these tariff quotas, observe the reference prices applicable to them and also prices not less than the free-at-frontier reference prices referred to in Regulation (EEC) No 2506/75 and subsequent texts which apply thereto.
1. The quotas laid down in Article 1 shall be divided into two tranches.
2. A first tranche of each quota shall be allocated among the Member States ; the
3« The shares fixed in paragraph 2 shall be increased by any part
of the shares allocated under Regulations (EEC) Nos 3012/77 and 532/78 remaining on 30 April 1978.
Member States shall notify the Commission not later than 15 Kay 1978 of any part of the shares allocated to them under the above-mentioned Regulations remaining on 30 April 1978.
 4. The second instalment of each quota, i.e. 7 200 and 45 660 hectolitres respectively, shall form the corresponding reserve to which any part of the reserves set up under Article 2 of
Regulations (EEC) Nos 3012/77 and 532/78 remaining on 30 April 1978 shall be added , irrespective of Article 5 .
1. If 90 % or more of one of the initial shares of a Member State, as laid down in Article 2 (2), has been
exhausted, that Member State shall proceed without delay, by notifying the Commission, to draw a second share equal to 10 % of its initial share, rounded up to the next unit where appropriate, to the extent that the amount in the reserve allows.
2. If, after one or other of its initial shares have been exhausted, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has been used, that Member State shall proceed in the manner specified in para­
graph 1 to draw a. third share equal to 5 % of its initial share, rounded up to th«- ■:» -a where appro­ priate .
3. If, after one or other of its second shares have been exhausted, 90 % or more of the third share
drawn by a Member State has been used, that Member State shall , in accordance with the same conditions , drawn a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall be applied until the reserve is exhausted .
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may proceed to draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs, if there is reason to believe that those shares might not be used up. They shall inform the Commission of the reasons which led them to apply this paragraph.
The additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1978.
The Member Stales shall return to the reserve, not later than 15 / 1978, the unused portion of their initial share which, on 1 November 1978, is in excess of 20 % of their initial amount. They may return a larger portion if there are reasons for believing that such portion may not be used in full.
The Member States shall, not later than 15 November 1978, notify the Commission of the total imports of
the products concerned effected up to 1 November 1978 inclusive, and charged against the Community
quota and, where appropriate, the proportion of their initial share that is being returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep account of the shares opened by Member States in accordance with Articles 2 and 3 and shall inform each of them of the extent to which the reserve has been used as soon as it receives the notifications.
_November The Commission shall; not later than 20 / 1978, notify Member States of the amount in the reserve
after the return of shares pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which uses up the reserve is limited to the balance available and, for this purpose, shall specify the amount thereof to the Member State which makes the final drawing.
). The Member States shall take all measures neces­ sary to ensure that, when additional shares are drawn
pursuant to Article 3, it is possible for charges to be made without interruption against their accumulated shares of the Community quota.
17 The Member States shall ensure that importers of the said goods established in their territory have free access to the shares allocated to them.
3. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined on the basis of the
imports of the goods in question entered at customs for home use.
On receipt of a
Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall coop­ erate closely in order to ensure that this Regulation is observed .
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 May 1978. x
request from the
 This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council The President
Frankrig 0,1 0,1 Irland 1,0 0,7 Italien 0,0 0,0
Tyskland Frankrig Irland Itauen
