t. chouc e,t !
Sources : Statistical Yearbook of the Bank of Greece Centre de Programmation et d'Etudes économiques
All goods and services
IlI!I Netherlands -- Pavs-Bas
Ireland – Irlande
Finland – Finlande
\w-i 30 Ϊ0ρ is is-
Land 1964
Griechenland T:EUR-9 Griechenland EUR-9 EUR-10 τ
Griechenland ^"1966" ! ^"1972" 1^•1972" 0"1966" 0"1972"
Irland -U. /
Griechenland Κ
I it I
rii! I Ierland X
Zwitserland
COM(76) 30 final. Brussels, 29 January 1976
Table of Contents
Specific aspects of the Greek application for membership
A. TheGreekeconomy 1 B. The present state of the Association 3 C. TheCustomsUnion 3 D. The Internal Market 5 E. TheCommonAgriculturalPolicy 5 F. TheRulesonCompetition 12 G. Taxation 12
H. Régional Policy 13 I. SocialPolicy 14 J. Co-ordinationofEconomicandMonetaryPolicies 15 K. Free Movement of Capital 15 L. 'European Coal and Steel Community and Euratom 15 M. Energy 16 N. Externalrelations 17 0. BudgetaryconsequencesofGreekmembership 18 P. Institutions 20 Q. Otherissues 20
Statistical Annexes.
1 * At its session on 24 June 1975 » "the Council of the European Communities asked the Commission to submit its opinion on the Greek application for member­ ship of the EEC , the ECSC and the Euratom , according to Articles 237 » 98 surd 205 of the respective Treaties .
2 . In order to formulate its opinion on the Greek applications , the Commission has undertaken a first examination of the economic and technical questions which the entry of Greece into the Community might raise . This examination has revealed that in a number of areas it is not possible before more information has become available to arrive at a clear picture of all the
technical and economic problems which might arise , either with regard to the factual situation or with regard to the way in which solutions to specific problems might be sought in negotiations. For this reason, the Commission might wish to present supplementary information and evaluations at a later stage.
In addition to the general and specific economic questions relating to the enlargement of the Community, an opinion on the Greek application for member­ ship must take account of certain wider issues of a political and economic nature including the problems related to the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean as well as to the prospect of further enlargements of the Community.
3. The general questions and wider issues raised by the Greek application are examined below in Part I , while the preliminary findings regarding specific economic and technical questions axe contained in Part II.
It is the first time that the European Community has been presented with an application for full membership from a country with which it already has close contractual links. This relationship is defined in the Association which was created between the EEC and Greeoein 19^2 , covering not just trade policy but a whole series of steps that were to be undertaken to ensure Greece 's progressive integration into the entire fabric of Community life. In particular, the Athens agreement was explicitly aimed at paving the way for eventual full membership.
Fourteen years later , in the aftermath of fundamental changes in its political and economic situation, Greece has decided that it is now in a position to move on to this final stage in its relations with the Community.
Given the avowed aims of the Community in establishing the Association, and Greece '8 return to a democratic form of government , there can "be no doubt , in the view of the Commission that the Community must now give a clear positive answer to the Greek request .
5 . The Greek application for membership in the timescale currently envisaged , that is without first waiting for the full implementation of the present Association, necessarily raises a complex of issues which need to be identified for they entail important consequences for both Greece and the Community, and, taking a positive verdict on the principle of membership as the starting point , this paper proposes certain guidelines for approaching these problems#
6. The prospect of Greek membership raises the problem of the disagreements between Greece and Turkey, an Associate country whose agreement with the Community also has full membership as its stated final objective#
The European Community is not and should not become a party to the disputes between Greece and Turkey.
The Commission is consequently of the opinion that the European Community should urge upon Greece and Turkey the need for them to reach just and lasting solutions to the differences which separate them. The Community should consider what part it could play, in parallel with the preparatory work for Greek accession, to facilitate this process. It is evident that the success of these initiatives does not depend on the Community alone, and it would therefore be inappropriate for the decision on Greek membership to be dependent on it .
7. Until now the balance in the Community's relations with Greece and Turkey has found its egression in their identical Btatus as Associates, both
of them with the possibility of full membership as the final objective , albeit with different timetables .
Unavoidably the prospect of Greek membership of the Community introduces a new element in this balance .
In -the view of the Commission epeoific stepa will neod to be taken to give substance to the Council's declaration of 24 June 1975» "t° "the effect that the examination of the Greek application for membership will not affect relations between the Community and Turkey and that the rights guaranteed by the Association Agreement with Turkey would not be affected thereby. The Commission will in due course submit separately its proposals on how this should be done .
Economic Implications of Crook Accession
8. Where the Community is concerned, the overall impact in macro-economic terms of Greek membership of the Community will be limited given the relative magnitudes involved; and the main economic implication of Greek membership for the Community is likely to be financial and budgetary (see Part II below).
9. The Greek economy at its present stage of development contains a number of structural features which limits its ability to combine homogeneously with the economies of the present Member States . In particular , the relative size
of the agricultural population, the structure of Greece's agricultural industry, and its relatively weak industrial base call for structural changes for which the Community will have to bear a share of the cost. Transfers of resources '
will need to take place, and the order of magnitude will be related to the time foreseen for these adjustments.
10. As to the budgetary implications of eventual enlargement, the present opinion cannot be specific if for no reason other than that too much uncertainty surrounds the timing and breakdown of individual components of revenue and expenditure .Many of the necessary projections can only usefully be made when detailed negotiations have shed more light on the kind of arrangements that may be concluded . And no figures given now can take into account the possible evolution of the Community 's own policies and the dynamic effects of Greek membership on these policies.
But to indicate the orders of magnitude which may be involved , the Commission has made some purely illustrative calculations of revenue and ex­ penditure . These are based on the Community budget for 1976 , and the full application (at current prices and exchange rates) of the policies underlying the budget to Greece(as expenditure additional to the 1976 budget).
The estimated overall result would be an increase in expenditure of the order of 450 million U.A., or about 6fo of the 1976 EEC-9 budget. The
estimated, overall increase in revenue ( own resources and contributions ) would "be of the order of 150 million U.A. , leaving a net additional annual cost of some 300 million U.A.
These illustrative figures are "based on a simple application of the Community 's current policies , and do not therefore fully take into account the actual financing requirements of the Greek economy alluded to above. Nor do they take into account the impact of any transitional measures on either the revenue or the expenditure aspects of the "budget .
11. Where Greece is concerned it might at first sight seem that the Association Agreement , which has already "brought the contracting parties a long way towards customs union , has drastically reduced the eventual economic impact of full membership. But there axe certain additional aspects to which the Commission thinks it necessary to draw attention.
First , in the important area of agricultural harmonisation , actual progress within the Association has regrettably been limited, largely because of the freezing of the Agreement from 1967-74. Although in 1975 "the work of agricultural harmonisation has been taken up again , the fact is that Greece 's position is still far from being that of a near Member State. Complex political and social considerations will mean that integration of Greek agriculture with that of the Community, whether within the framework of Association or of membership , will take time : and the faster the process , the greater the cost .
Secondly, in recent times the Community has granted various forms of preferential access to its market to a wide range of countries , be it in Europe , in the Mediterranean , or elsewhere . These are obligations which do not affect Greece as an Associate , but which she would have to assume as a member .
12. So long as Greece is not a member of the Community the kind of diffuculties that might arise from the necessary structural changes mentioned in paragraphs
9 and 11 above could be dealt with more easily. Thus Greece is currently to a
great extent free to conduct its trade policy towards third countries. Even with regard to trade with Member States , special mechanisms could be allowed if
grave difficulties were to arise .
In the case of full membership, however, the same degree of flexibility could not be allowed without disrupting the common market . Everything possible should of course be done to avoid such a risk, especially in view of the
likelihood of further applications for membership from countries in a similar economic position to that of Greece , for whom the arrangements concluded, within the framework of Greek accession would create a precedent .
Development of the Community
13. A quite different issue raised "by the prospect of Greek membership is that implied by any enlargement of the Community, namely its effect on the working methods and the future development of the Community.
The prospect of further enlargement at a time when the full consequences of the preceding one have not yet been absorbed must give rise to concern. The Commission considers therefore that any further enlargement must be accompanied by a substantial improvement in the efficiency of the Community's decision- making processes and strengthening of its common institutions .
14 . Furthermore , in so far as its future development is concerned , the Community is preparing to take some important new steps on the road towards European Union comprising a whole range of political (eg direct elections to
the European Parliament) and economic (eg Economic and Monetary Union) questions. On some of these matters, decisions of principle have already been taken. This on-going integration process must not be delayed by further enlargement. Indeed further enlargement calls for an acceleration of this process. Therefore the Commission believes it essential for the Community to make significant progress in its own internal development in the period leading up to enlargement.
15» In preparing the present opinion the Commission has been deeply conscious of the obligation that lies on the Community to find a fitting and appropriate response to the Greek request for membership . This request , coming a few months only after the restoration of democracy in Greece and enjoying the support of almost every shade of Greek political opinion, represents a remarkable affirmation
by the Greek people and their leaders of the overriding importance they attach
to their country being committed to the cause of European integration. It is clear that the consolidation of Greece 's democracy which is a fundamental concern not only of the Greek people but also of the Community and its Member States ,
is intimately related to the evolution of Greece 's relationship with the Community. It is in the light of these considerations that the Commission recommends that a clear affirmative reply be given to the Creek request and that negociations for Greek accession "be opened.
16. The present opinion has examined a number of difficult political and economic issues which are raised by such a decision. In the view of the Commission these should not be regarded as obstacles in the path of Greek accession, but should serve rather as a stimulus to the search for solutions and to the Community's own internal development and reinforcement. They do, however , give rise to certain considerations on timing .
• The Community's experience has already shown the need for a transitional period of some years even for countries with a highly developed industrial base and an agricultural structure comparable to the other Member States. In the
case of Greece , where structural changes of a considerable magnitude are needed , it would seem desirable to envisage a period of time before the obligations of membership , even subject to transitional arrangements , are undertaken . During
this period,*which will in any case need to be limited, it would be necessary
to do much more than simply press ahead with the final stages of the
development of the Association. In the Commission's view what is needed is on
the one hand a substantial economic programmewhich would enable Greece to accelerate the necessary structural reforms , and on the other , measures to
bring Greece into a closer working relationship with the Community's institutions. For example it would seem appropriate , in addition to the new financial protocol proposed under the Association, to envisage the use of certain of the Community's own existing financial instruments in Greece during this period } thus the Community could allocate in its budget special funds for Greece as an additional part of the Social , Regional and Agricultural Structure Funds . The work of committing this expenditure could be so organised that Greece would herself participate actively in the process . In these fields , as well as possibly on others , Greece would thus be brought more and more into the working of the Community mechanisms . Moreover , it would seem also appropriate that the Member States of the Community should work out ways of bringing Greece into closer contact with the procedures of political cooperation on matters of foreign policy.
At the same time , and in parallel with the implementation of these measures , negotiations towards accession should begin with Greece , priority being given to those issues which experience in previous membership negotiations has shown to require a very considerable amount of time and effort .
17. In the event of the Council sharing the Commission's general conclusions afcout the Community 's response to the Greek request for membership , the Commission would intend to put forward detailed proposals for the special measures to be taken with Greece during the period up to her accession.
Some of the main characteristics of the Greek economy and its growth since the late 1950's serve as a "background to the specific problems that might arise
in the context of the country's accession to the Community. (The details of
the national income compared with certain other countries in Europe are'contained in table l).
The years 1958 to 1973 witnessed a substantial improvement in the country's economic situation, both in absolute terms and as compared to the present Member States of the Community. This improvement was brought about through an extremely high rate of sustained growth in CDP, based mainly on the rapid development of key industrial sectors, (l) whose capital requirements were to a great extent met by foreign private investment.
The road towards industrialisation taken by Greece so far has, however, raised a number of structural problems for its economy, some of which are particularly noteworthy here. Firstly, agriculture has lagged behind the boom in industrial production. Small, often unproductive holdings, difficult soil conditions, problems in applying modern technology and substantial hidden unemployment underlie this sector's relatively low share of the national product notwith­ standing the high proportion of the country's active population employed in agri culture . ( 2 )
Secondly, industrial growth has tended to concentrate geopgrahically, the bulk
of investments centering on the Athens~Piraeus conurbation to the detriment
of most of the islands and the peripheralmainland areas, thus aggravating the regional problems faced by Greece. (3) The country's regional disparities,
though in individual respects comparable to those of Italy and Ireland, may
prove as a whole to be even harder to oorrect, particularly as a result of geographical handicaps. Moreover, Greece's overall rate of industrial growth conceals very large disparities between different industries* the metal, petrochemical and textile sectors have registered particularly dynamic perfomaneces.
(l) Tables 1 and 2.
 Thirdly, although Greek economic development has been accompanied by a sustained deficit on visible trade , partly explained "by dependence on imported capital goods, until recently, this deficit was largely compensated "by an equally sustained surplus on invisible trade, made up mostly of earnings from shipping and tourism and emigrant workers' remittances* (l).
But now, owing partly to certain short–term changes in invisible receipts, but
most particularly to the unfavourable shift in terms of trade brougth about since the 1973/4 surge in oil prices, a substantial current account defioit has emerged.(2) This deficit has not so far seriously affected the country's exchange reserves,
which fell in 1974 for the first time since 1968: moreover, the burden of debt servicing is still within normal limits (3)*
The Creek economy, particularly since 1973> has also undergone a period of high rate of inflation, which, although falling now, has not yet been brought back to a level nearer to the OECD average: should this not be achieved, the country's external disequilibrium would be further aggravated, with all the problems this entails.(4)
An alleviation of the country's balance-of–payments difficulties may be on its way in the shape of new sourced of energy. Large lignite and peat reserves, and hydroelectric power, together with recent oil discoveries, could provide the basis for new processing industries as well as earning or saving valuable foreign exchange. As yet, however, it is not possible to evaluate this energy potential with any degree of accuracy.(5)
Developments in the balance of payments are, however, expected to constitute a major constraint on economic growth in the coming 5-yeax period, and a significant inflow of long term private capital seems required if a critical increase of other development of the Greek economy moreover depends on the continuation of industrialisation through the creation of competitive industries} a successful policy with regard to the modernisation of agriculture} the elimination of hidden unemployment in that sector as well as improvement of living standards for those who remain employed in agriculture} the attracting of foreign capital and the mobilisation of domestic savings for investment, in particular through the development of a capital market which seems too narrow at present} and the carrying out of fiscal reforms.
(1) Tables 8 and 15 (2) Table 9
3) About 11% of export revenue in 1974* 4) Table 18
The economic implications of Greece 's application for membership must
also "be measured against the current state of economic relations between
it and. the European Community. These relations are defined by the provisions of the 1962 Association Agreement, which was the first and most wide-ranging contractual arrangement of its kind undertaken by the Community.
The Association Agreement 's main principles and provisions were modelled closely on those of the Treaty of Rome. They therefore cover not only a
full customs union, which in agriculture is to be accompanied by harmonisation of agricultural policies, but also several other elements of the Common Market such as rules of competition including those applying to state aids, free
movement of persons and services, and coordination of economic policies.
However, many of the provisions of the agreement, which was intended to be fully implemented by 1984» have hardly begun to be applied at all, particularly as a result of the 1967-74 freezing of all progress on many provisions of the agreement. In several of these areas it was in any case not mandatory that
the agreement be applied in exactly the same way as similar provisions of
the Treaty of Rome, It follows from this that in a number of areas membership will create a completely new situation for Greece. This is for instance the case as regards the ECSC and external relations.
The development of the Association has been considerably hampered by the imbalance created between the automatic provisions relating to the Customs Union and the other provisions as a result of the 1967-74 freeze1 more remains to be done in a much shorter time than was originally foreseen and the full implementation of the provisions of the Association Agreement could present substantial difficulties.
Since 1 November 19741 practically all Greek exports to the Community and about two-thirds of Community exports to Greece enter free of duty under the provisions of the Association Agreement.(l)
(l) This does not include levies and compensatory taxes for certain agricultural sectors.
 The remaining third, of Community exports to Greece is governed "by a timetable leading to customs union "by 1984 in progressive stages(l)t as of 1 November 1975 Greece may apply to Community exports of these products only 56% of its 1962 duties. Greece is obliged to phase out progressively, by 1984> its remaining quantitative restrictions on imports from the Community, and neither party may invoke the general safeguard clause, void since 1970.
Under the Agreement and subsequent decisions of the contracting parties, Greece is empowered, until 1980, to reintroduce tariff duties within well- defined limits, in defence of its infant industries. Such duties must in any case be removed by 1984. Very limited use has so far been made of this facility which seems incompatible with full membership, maybe because disarmement with respect to most of the really sensitive sectors has only
recently reached a significant depth.
In this context should also be mentioned the Greek import deposit scheme which applies fully to imports from third countries and parially to imports
from the EEC. This scheme is intended to be phased out by 1984(2).
Moreover, Greece appears to apply to its industries an extensive system of aids. Insofar as some of these should prove incompatible with the common market, (see P below), detailed studies would be required to estimate the impact on the sectors concerned of the removal of this element of protection.
With regard to third countries, Greece has adopted the basic duties of the CCT for those products which now enter from the Community free of duty. For the remaining products, alignment to the CCT as a general rule has reached 50$ of the difference between CCT and Greek rates. For certain products
alignment to the CCT is suspended until 1984* Adoption by Creece of the CCT has not so far, however, implied any adoption of the preferential agreements concluded between the Community and third countries, nor of the autonomous reductions within the Community's Generalised System of Preferences# In the event of membership Greece would have to adopt these preferential reductions.
1) See schedule in statistical annex.
2) Under Protocol 11 of the Athens Agreement, although Greece has
introduced additional measures on a temporary basis in the past , which have now been removed.
This general heading covers the whole spectrum of complex technical issues, other than tariff matters, which affect freedom of movement for goods, services, and companies under the provisions of the Treaty of
Rome and secondary legislation. These range, amongst others, from quantitative restrictions to technical and safety standards, health
regulations, procedures relating to pxiblic tenders, the protection of industrial property rights, harmonisation\>f company laws, and "banking and insurance legislation. >
In certain cases, for instance the elimination of quantitative restrictions and measures of equivalent effect, the difference "between association and membership is not significant.
Many other elements of the Common Market, however, are either not covered by the Association Agreement or are covered "by provisions of the Association which have not yet "been implemented, and in these areas the implications of membership require further study. Even where significant
economic consequences are unlikely to follow from the necessary changes in legislation, experience has shown that a number of intricate problems
may need to be solved. A considerable amount of joint technical preparatory work will therefore have to be carried out in order to identify points of difficulty and determine appropriate solutions.
The extension of the customs union to agricultural products is foreseen under the provisions of the Association Agreement, which provides that the functioning and development of the Association in the agricultural sector
shall be accompanied by the harmonisation of the agricultural policies of Greece and the Community. This harmonisation on which progress was stopped in 19^7 is to be accomplished by 1 November 1984» entailing the adoption by Greece of the full provisions of the CAP, and in particular the EEC system of price guarantees, intervention levels, and export restitutions.
 Meanwhile, Greek agricultural exports to the EEC are governed "by a special series of arrangements "based either on the protocols annexed to the Athens
Agreement, or on decisions taken thereafter whithin the framework of the Association.
Currently, most of Greece's agricultural exports to the Community "benefit from complete exemption from customs duties where these still exist under the CAP* However, some mechanisms such as import levies are applied with respect to Greece, albeit using special criteria in the case of certain products*
As far as Membership is concerned the Commission considers that Greece must adopt, in the agricultural sector, the CAP ae it stands. It is likely that this adoption will raise certain problems.
A rough comparison between the structure of Greek agriculture and that of the Community appears from the table below:
2 Agricultural area (km )
Population engaged in agriculture as % of total working population
Contribution of agriculture toGDP{%) (1972)
Average area of holdings
1973figures (except where stated)
Source: BasicStatisticsoftheEuropeanCommunity, and Statistical Yearbook of Greece
 While the area under cultivation in a Community enlarged to include Greece will increase "by olose to 10 per cent, and the farming population "by a
little over 12 per cent, the number of farm units will increace "by 19 per cent. The output per person engaged in agriculture in Greece is about 40
per cent to the gross national product at market prices in Greece, and
employs 36 per cent of the population, whilst in the Community it contributes about 5 per cent to GEP and employs about 9 per cent of the working population*
The product coverage of Greek agriculture is not substantially different from that of the Community although there are differences as to the relative importance of a number of products. Milk, for instance, in 1972 accounted for 18 per cent of agricultural production in the Community, compared to only 3 per cent in Greece, whereas, for instance, the production of vegetable oils accounts for slightly more than 1 per cent in the Community as compared to
more than 10 per cent in Greece. It should be noted that some of the Greek products that have hitherto given rise to difficulties on the Community market are a relatively small part of current Greek domestic output:(4) conversely, Greece is aja importer of a number of products such as meat , dairy products and
This said, there is clearly a likelihood that the inclusion of Greece in the Community will lead to certain regional problems, seasonally aggravated, in
the Community itself, arising from the nature of Greek agricultural production, its response to the application of a CAP and the lack of intervention meohanisms for the products concerned.
Greek entry should not give rise either to major changes in the level of the Community's self-sufficiency for agricultural products(2) nor confront the different kinds of market organisation within the Community with a substantially different situation.
With the exception of certain products, such as oriental tobacco, some fresh and processed fruit and vegetables, and olive oil, such changes as will result are smaller than the normal annual variations in Community production. The Community is, however, not at present self-sufficient in any of the three product groups mentioned, and even after Greek entry it would seem that
(1) Tables 13 and 14»
4) The proportion of agricultural output in Greece represented by wine is 2,3%
and fruit and vegetables 12,3$* Corresponding figures for the Community are 6,9% and 11,9%.
 important quantities would still have to be imported, except in the oase of a limited number of specific products.(l) It is probable, however, that the application of the CAP to Greece will lead to increased production in which case the level of self-sufficiency might undergo "bigger changes than set out in table 12. In particular this could be the case for fruit and vegetables and wine.
Greek agricultural prices to the producer are in many cases (in particular for fruit and vegetables and wine) considerably lower than in the Community. For other products (like some cereals) there is no, or only a negligible, defference between producer prices in Greece and in the Community.
In certain sectors where some individual product prices are similar in Greece
and in the Community the price ratios between other products within the same category can be substantially different from those in the Community (e.g.
cereals). Higher price levels and the guaranteed system for certain products
in the Community will also, working in a substantially different structural
context, stimulate production in Greece on a selective basis. Given the considerable difference between the structure of agriculture in Greece and the EEC, abrupt modifications of the prices paid to Greek producers which are not accompanied by changes in the structure of Greek agriculture could create imbalance as regards incomes of different categories of agricultural producers.
For the Community, the main incidence of Greek membership in the agricultural sector is likely to be financial. Hie overall volume of Community interventions on both guarantee and guidance sections cf the EA.GGF, on the national assumptions of immediate implementation of 1975 prices and market regulations to current production, can be estimated at an annual 2G0 million U.A. or about 5$ 1976 budgeted expenditure for the EAGGF.
(l) These limited changes in the Community's self-sufficiency ratio co-old in
the case of a few specific products , bring about modifieations to established trade patterns, notably with regard to third country. Mediterranean suppliers*
Total EAGGF (Guarantee) of whichi
Fruit and vegetables
Hard wheat v Other
Million U.A. - Current prices and exchange rates
As regards the guidance section, it is clear that the current state of Greek agriculture presents a more serious structural problem than those prevailing
in any Member State (l). Farm holdings, which are generally small, are typically fragmented into unconnected plots, which in turn impedes the adoption of modern technology. These difficulties are aggravated by the absence of appropriate marketing facilities and in particular an insufficiently developed network of co-operatives# For these reasons, Community guidance expenditure is likely to have to increase by much more than the proportionate increase in the agricultural area (10$), and the increase in the total population engaged in agriculture (12$). It seems reasonable to assume that this proportion would increase by half to about 18$, which gives an illustrative figure, based on the 1976 budget, of some 60 million U.A. This figure implies corresponding expenditure of up to
three times this amount by the Greek authorities, since guidance expenditure is subject to oertain rules of matching.
As for the guarantee section, application of the 1975 market rules to Greek agricultural production would have the expenditure consequences illustrated in the following table, based on 1972-74 production and trade flowsi
Illustration of EAGGF (Guarantee Section) Expenditure resulting from Greek Membership
(1) Within the context of the Association the Commission has recommended to
the Council that negotiations for a second financial protocol begin on
the basis of 120 million U.A. in grants and 250 million U.A. in loans
over 5 years, for agricultural infrastructure and to help convert agricultural production towards an increased harmonisation with the Community.
The increase of 220 U.A. for 197° in guarantee expenditure is composed principally of production aids. Additional export restitutions of some
20 MUC/annum will be incurred for exports from Greece to third countries, counterbalanced "by a reduction of around 20 MUC/annum in export restitutions currently payable upon Community exports to Greece.
These figures do not take account of the dynamic effects resulting from the application of the CAP to Greek agricultural production structures nor of
the above average requirements of Greek agriculture for structural expenditure quite insufficient. The cost effect of these factors cannot be estimated in the absence of more detailed information both as to present patterns of production and as to future potential. Such matters need to be carefully examined in conjunction with the Greek authorities.
The Treaty of Rome and the Athens Agreement in principle impose similarobligationswith, respecttotheruleswhichapplyto undertakings, theusemadeofstateaids, andstatetrading monopolies and public enterprises. The provisions of the Athens Agreement have, however, not yet been implemented in the absence of the necessary decisions by the Council Oi Association.
Information on the Greek situation so far as the rules of
competition and the system of aids are concerned is not yet
sufficienttodeterminewhetherapplicator*Oj. "heCommuniy^ rules in this field is likely to give rise to major adjustment
problems. However, astudyindepthisneededinviewofthe need for a common framework for industrial policy.
Asregardsregionalaids, Greecehasbeenentitledunderthe Association agreement to maintain State aids for regional economic development by application to uhe coum-iy as a
of the same derogation as is contained in Article 92 (3;(a)
theTreatyofRome. Intheeventofaccession, asolution^ough rather to be sought along the lines of a protocol such as .hose
relating to Southern Italy or Ireland where it is recognised^ that the particular economic situation of the region Ox country would be taken into account when applying the provisions of 4"Vr\ Tf
A preliminary examination of this complicated field, which is
not covered by the Association Agreement, has revealed^a series of questions which will have to be studied further before it can be established whether and to what extent the appxxcauion *o
GreeceofCommunityruleswillcreateproblems. Thestructure of the system of indirect taxation in Greece uO conform *o
relevantprovisionsofCommunitylegislation. Forinstance, Greece currently applies a turnover tax. of the value-added type
So far very littla information is available on Creek excise taxes.
which in several respec^s dij-xers j.rom -j.:
Greec's regional disparities are related to the problems of modernisation of agriculture and the requirements of industrialisation, and compounded by geographical and
Membership of the Community will necessarily imply extension by the latter to Greece of its recently formulated regional policy, and in particular, of development assistance within the framework of the Regional Fund.
Information about the precise economic situation of the Greek regions and the present extent and mechanisms of government assistance in Greece is not as yet sufficient to arrive at
an accurate assessment as to what the country's real financing, requirements are. On the other hand, for the purposes of illustration, an analogy could be made on the basis of the volume of resources currently put at the disposal of the Regional Fund for the period 1975-77. Within the overall amount, shares of 84 million U.A., and 520 million U.A. have been set aside for Ireland and Southern Italy respectively. Given regional disparities which may be held to be more
serious than those of either Member State, and adjusting these countries' share pro rata for population size (2), this analogy yields a purely illustrative figure of 100 million U.A. for the single year 1976 . This effort would
need to be additional to the amount that would otherwise be
required on behalf of the handicapped regions of the present Member States.
(1) See Section A and tables 6 and 7
(2) In the case of Italy, the population of the Mezzogiorno only.
In the field of free movement of labour the Athens Agreement already entails the extension to Greece- of the relevant articles of the Treaty of Rome . Implementation of these provisions does not seem to raise major problems , at any rate
not any new problems compared to those of implementing the Association .
Emigration towards the Community, an important factor in Greek economic development during the 1960's, seems likely to continue to fall as a result of increasing industrialisation
in Greece and changes in the pattern of demand for labour in the countries of immigration. The level of development of the Greek social security system seems to indicate that the Community rules can be directly applied by Greece without any techincal difficulties.
Some of the structural adjustments that the future growth of the Greek economy may entail would seem to qualify for the intervention of the Social Fund and the ECSC Fund: a shift
of a substantial section of the agricultural population into other sectors as part of the process of industrialisation may account for a high proportion of this expenditure. The appropriate level of expenditure would be determined by the Commission in the light of need, of the quality of projects undertaken and of the ability of the Greek Government to bear a proportion of the costs . It would also naturally be influenced by the overall size of the fund decided by the Council. For illustration, however, under the existing Social Fund, in 1975 Ireland obtained about 20 million U.A* and Italy about 100 million U.A. Making some, albeit inexact allowance for Greece's structural problems, a purely illustrative figure
of expenditure for Greece from a Social Fund of this size might be of the order of 40 million U.A.
It should be recalled that Community provisions in the field of co-ordination of monetary and economic policy already exist* In this context, certain of the structural features of the Greek economy should be given particular attention insofar as they may limit the Greek Government 's ability to conform to these provisions upon accession. Thus the country's fiscal structure (very low proportion of direct taxes), its banking system, and its current instruments of internal and external
monetary policy do not appear to be sufficiently developed
to meet Community requirements as they are set out in the Council's Directive dated 18 February 1974 on stability, growth, and full employment in the Community, as well as the Council's decision of the same date concerning the achievement of a
high degree of convergence between economic policies. K - FREE MOVEMENT OF CAPITAL
Greece still applies severe exchange control and other restrictions on most categories of capital transfers, inward and outward. Greek membership would entail acceptance of Community legislation governing the removal of restrictions on capital flows between the Member States.
Further study is needed to evaluate the extent and effect of such changes.
Greece is not associated to the Coal and Steel Communityi furthermore, its association to the EEC does not involve a special tariff arrangement to cover trade in ECSC products.
Establishment of the customs union for ECSC products therefore begins from third-country status. It would involve dismantlement of Greek duties and other trade barriers on Community exports,
starting from a relatively high rate of protection as far
as duties are concerned, and adoption towards third countries of CCT rates which are significantly lower than Greec 's present tariff on these products* Although the Greek steel industry is showing signs of rapid development, particularly on export
markets , accession to the ECSC may therefore require special transitional arrangements.
Similar considerations may apply to the Greek system of state to this sector, whose compatibility with the ECSC will have to be examined in the light of the provisions of the Treaty of Paris. Application by the Nine of the ECSC Treaty provisions to Greece should equally be implemented through suitable transitional arrangements.
Accession to the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom), on the other hand, raises no foreseeable difficulty. Greece will have to participate in Euratom supply and research policy.
As pointed out in section A above, Greece may soon dispose of substantial marketable sources of energy - oil and lignite - which may considerably alleviate pressure on the country's balance of trade, as well as providing a platform for new energy-intensive industries.
Greece does not currently possess major nuclear energy facilities: furthermore, its natural endowment with other sources of energy makes rapid expansion in this field unlikely.
From the point of view of the Community as a whole, however, Greek membership is not likely to affect the overall energy balance to any great extent: on the basis of the information currently available, it is unlikely that Greek production capacity will outstrip domestic demand in the foreseeable future.
Greece will have to apply the Community's preferential arrangements, that is the EFTA agreements, the agreements with the other Mediterranean countries, the Lom6 Convention and the Generalized System of Preferences.
The current share in overall Greek imports of the countries involved is at present relatively limited (6.6 EFTA, less than 10$ from the 11 Mediterranean countries with whome EEC
preferential or Association agreements exist or are envisaged, 2.5% ACP). (1) With the removal of tariff barriers, however, these countries could considerably improve their share of the
In the case of specific economic sectors, particularly amongst those which so far benefited from a relatively high level of protection and which do not have a natural competitive advantage, this aspect of membership could give rise to serious problems; further investigation will be required on this point.
Greece will also have to adopt other elements of the common trade policy, like the common liberalization lists, the Multifibre Arrangements, non-preferential bilateral agreements, and here
Finally, Greece will have to participate in the Community's common policy of development co-operation including in particular making a contribution to the EDF.
As in the case of the present new Member States , suitable transitional arrangements may have to be established in the case of some of the Community's agreements with third countries.
(1) Table 11. The 100-plus beneficiaries of the Community's GSF, including some Mediterranean countries, should also
be taken into account although statistics are not available.
The preceding sections give certain indications as to the possible magnitude of the budgetary consequences of Greek accession in the case of the more important Community policies without taking into account their possible evolution . These figures , which are of a clearly hypothetical nature , are
based on the arbitrary assumption that current Community policies are
being fully applied to Greece in a normal year after the necessary ptarting-up
phase in the operation of the funds has taken place. On this basis, there iB no need to differentiate between commitments and disbursements.
The following table summarises the indications given above under the respective headings, together with other relatively less important expenditure items .
60 social policy 40 Régional policy 100 Research policy 5 Administrative and personnel costs 20
These figures refer to the "Commission" section of the overall budget , and
therefore do not incorporate the financial impact of Greek accession on the other sections .
Reimbursement of 10% of own resources
Also for illustrative purposes , a preliminary estimate of the likely increase in the Community's own resources as a result of Greek accession is given "below. These following figures are "based on the 1976 "budget , modified in the light
of the expenditure estimates given a"bove. The figure for customs revenue is
"based on the assumption that Greece fully applies the CCT and collects no duties on imports from the Community or from the EFTA countries (l).
Expenditure within the 197° budget , to be met in accordance with the 21 April 1970 décision
Expenditure incurred as a result of accession
Percentage of the VAT base (Community of 9)
Percentage of the VAT base (Community of 10)
Own resources to be paid in: - Customs duties
- 0.52% of the VAT base
Greece will also incur other financial obligations as a result of membership, and particularly in the form of a contribution to the EIB and to the ECSC. Greece will also need to make an appropriate contribution to the European Development Fund.
(1) The figure is not however abated to take account of the assumption by Greece of the Community 's other preferential arrangements .
(2) Greek membership would imply a reduced perception of 15 MUC/annum upon imports by the "9" from Greece: the incidence upon imports by Greece from third countries is estimated at 5~10 MUC/annum.
The accession of Greece will require adaptations of the composition of all the Community institutions. In addition to the European Parliament, the Council, the Commission, and the Court of Justice, adaptations will have to be made as.regards the European Investment Bank, the Economic and Social Committee, the ECSC Consultative Committee, and the Monetary Committee.
These adaptations , together with appropriate adaptations to Committees cet up under secondary legislation, which will have to be agreed upon in
the Course of the enlargement negotiations , should not give rise to major difficulties .
The prospect of Creek membership also raises a number of issues which Eire not dealt with in detail here.
Some of these are all\ided to in the context of the general economic situation in Greece: transport and tourism for instance. Other issues include education, science and technology, and protection of the environment.
In the light of its preliminary examinations the Commission considers that Greek accession is not likely to create major problems in these fieldB .
(a) f&piit reduatien by Greece with respeet to community exports of Annex I Products (Article 15)
Cumulative % reduction of basis duty
(b) Alignment by Greece to the OCT for imports from third countries of products listed in Annex I of the Athens Agreement (Article 20)
Cumulative reduction of difference between Greek and CCT rate
50 io (100 yo for products with less than 15 # difference after first
Tariff reduction/alignment schedules under the Athens agreement)
GDP and per capita GDP, 1973, selected countries.
Indices of industrial production (major industries), 1959 = 100.
Indices of real GDP, selected countries, 1964 - 1973.
Composition of the labour force, 1961 and 1971. Composition of GDP by sectors, 1969 - 1974.
Area, population, density (1961/1971) and per capita GDP (1972) by region.
Cumulative regional distribution of (a) population and (b) income (Lorenz curves), selected countries.
Invisible Earnings by major source, 1961/1974. Balance of Payments, 1969 - 1974.
Overall energy balance sheet by product, 196l» 1970, and 1973.
Geographical composition of Greek imports, 1974 (% .
Agricultural production, availability, and selv- sufficiency, by main product headings, 1965 - 1967 and 1971 - 1974, EEC and Greece.
Greek exports to the EEC of Annex II (Treaty of Rome) products.
Greek imports from the EG of Annex II products.
EEC trade with world , world extra-EEC , Mediterranean, and Greece (1974).
- Greece - EEC balance of trade, 1958 - 1974.
- Greek trade (world and EEC) by tariff chapter.
- Percentage changes in price indices OECD countries, 1970 - 1975.
FooK'sa >", other wear,
Wood and cork
! products isxcl.clecj t annarat j|
leather Iticles î ! Chcnicals!lof petr. Ii
! Non laetall ic
plastics jI I; and coal II
and othor ' <II I
National Statistical Service of Greece. NCTE: As, from 1975, the nonthly index of industrial production coaniled hy thd
NSSfi has 1970 as its base year and does not include figures .for the categories of wood and cork and products of petroleuo and coal . However, changes in the figures for these categories are included in the above general index of industrial production.
100,0 (b) Includes : Manufacturing, Mining and Quarrying, Electricity, Gas and Water Works;
Services & others Total
(a) Includes : Agriculture; Animal Breeding, Forestry, Fishing,
Source : Bank of Greece, Monthly Statistical Bulletin
Sources : Statistical Yearbook of the Bank of Greece Centre de Programmation et d'Etudes économiques
Other
Rate of
Source : Bank of Greece, Monthly Statistical Bulletin, March 1963, April 1975.
Other
Balance on Invisibles
Other private capital1
Capital belonging to banks and
other credit institutions1 Central Bank
Public entity and public enter­
Foreign suppliers' credit Aid- Reparations- Rcstitutions
Errora and omissions
Non-monetary ?ol<l •
OFFICIAL RESERVES (end of period)3
Balance of Trado
Other
(*) Amounts of drachmas withdrawn out of foreign exchange deposits by Greek workers and seamen, as well as out of deposits under the Housing Loan Deposit Scheme, are entered as a foreign exchange inflow in " Invisible receipts" and "Other private capital" and as an outflow in "Capital belonging to banks and other credit insti­ tutions ".
(') ^Transfer from Bank of Greece reserve of gold sovereigns. (®) Including Greece's gold tranche with the IMF.
Source : Bank of Greece, Report for "the year 1975
Primary Energy Production
Changes in stocks
Electrical Energy 4 17 32
TOTAL 4.468 Disposal primary energy and
Seconcary energy production
BUNKERS included BUNKERS excluded
Consumption of the "energy" sector
and "losses"
Final energy consumption
OVERALL ENERGY BALANCE SHEET BY PRODUCT (in thousand T.E.C.)
Fruits à coques Malt
All goods and soivices
Italy – Italic iii
Ireland – Irlande /
Finland – Finlande
Grskenland I alt
Grskenland » Tyrkiet
88 : Irland ■ ■
Kildei Bank of Greeoe, Monthly Statistical Bulletin.
Kilder: Statistical Yearbook of the Bank of Greece
ïrtdtffig-ter pâ ■nsynlis-e poster
Kildei Bank of Greece, Monthly Statistical Bulletin, March 1963, April 1975*
Produkti on 3eholdn .
SKEP ( Specialudgave )/ J-JU. ^ w
Guld
Kildej Bank of Greece , Rapport for 1975 *
I IIIIII II! 1II II! Tyskl and
rl and II I «IIU
II!!I'I Neder! andane
Finland I
