Zwitserland Verenigde Staten
Rome Nederland Brussel
Zwitserland
Weging Land >
■ stand s 30 jutii 197^) ï-'aandbcdratcn in DM
, stand s 30 iuni 1976) Î-Iaanubeuraron in Dû
Land : BR
Land s BR HJITSLAIÎD
Land : BR IUITSLAND
t : is : : s
' Geniddeld III
. airentore Assiur.to .*il Divisions ■' .
jüPIt 2f'/75 * .
lieueel tc It tpuci,.lo I
 iiederi and
- 59 - Stand 30.6.19Ï6
i It I'
I} 4--. it Trrm
bat. I Bruto ππ l.GttO Bruto Letto i
' Gemiddeldd indexci jfera
AssistantSecretary mn. 8650 8520
Higher Executive Officer Executive Officer Clerical Officer
Shorthand
Clerical Assistant
Deputy Secretary Jndor Sevrctary iissictant Secretary
Idr.ir.istration Trainee Senior E-ecoiive Officer ' ETigher Executive Officer Executive Officer Clerical Officer
Danuty Secretary Urvlor Secretary Asuiotant Secretary
Er<';utive Officer C'.rrical Officor
p -T.onal Secretary ' S^orlhand Typist
 Deputy secretary Under Secretary
Acoietant Secretary Principal
Μ Higher " "
Executive Officer Clerical Officer
Senior Personal Seer. 39 89 339!! Personal Secretary 670 336 1556!!
Shorthand Typist
Clerical Assistant 1429 7024 PJ/ TO I 178; 451 P-iTO III 735 1236 P&TO IV 190 1766
Peper Keeper 233 Uon-Industrial ear
Ilirher 11 " » πB- N Executive Officers
» Deputy Secretary »
Under Secretary J
Clerical Officer 11 :3
Senior Pera . Sec» Personal Secret , o Shorthand Typist o
I Secretary (Head
I ef Serartacat or I!
1975 s Totale bezoldi^in ; ven be;»aalcio rwvea ven Icrzc cr Jtcnarcn Tocstar.d per 1 juli (i...ic.ndjcJrr. ;cn in Icrce pc.:dca.
c I Clerical Officer
Toestand p*r 1 juli (1 ?.-viajoara' (1.1.76) Γ Jruto
Socrot?.ry (Mead of Department or "iniatr^
c Clerical Officer . Clerical Assistant
Departne.it or Min)jj II
«ϊ '/.in. Secretary (Head o^|
Clerical Assistant*
10.1 to .?
I It 1 !
, Nal Lonale rrrant (l) I !I I[ ii it !
pond sterl.
BRDuitsland A-6B-3!!χzXXXX!xXXIlXXX
 - 150 - banenvattend schcia
 Land Nederland
Land lerland
Jfederland Belgi?
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
I* New method of adjustment of salaries
On 29 June 1976 the Counoil adopted., after an initial three-year experimental period, a new method for adjusting the salaries of official* and other servants of the European Communities*
The basio differenoe between this method and the one previously adopted
is the use of a single referenoe indioator, vis. the speoifio indioator measuring the purchasing power of national oivil servants in the nine Member States* Other data and a number of maoro-eoonondo indioators
are also taken into aooount in order to enable the Statistical Offioe
of the European Communities and the Commission to estimate how adequately the speoifio indioator represents the trend of the national oivil servants* purchasing power and to make any necessary adjustments*
II* Cost of livinj;
The Statistical Offioe*8 report (part 1 below) shows the ohangea in the oost of living index in the period 1 July 1975 - 1 July 1976 for the various plaoes of employment*
The figures for the different countries for 1 July 1976 (on a "base of 100 at 1 July 1975) a1"® given in Column 1 of the following tablet
i Ireland '
t Netherlands
■- Change in the Increase granted Remainder to be 1 coost of living ' by the Council in granted for the 1 indioes between * respect of the 'period 1.1.76*" y 1.1.75 and period 1»7*75~ '"30.6.76
(1) National oost of living indices.
(2) Index valid for the seoond quarter of 1976.
On 3 March 1976 the Council approved a first cost of living award,
for the second half of 1975» with effect from 1 January 1976 (s?e Column 2)»
An award of 4*8$ effective from 1 April 1976 for officials assigned to Italy was proposed to the Counoil on 16 November 1976* The Council is required to deoide on this matter within two months.
lfce cost of living compensation in question is thus limited to the first six months of 1976 with the exception of Italy. The rate for each, country is shown at Column 3 of the table above.
III. Change in the purchasing power of salaries durimr the period 1 July 1975 - 1 July 19^
Using information supplied by the Member States the Statiptioal Offioe of the European Communities has worked out the changes in rational civil servants' remuneration.
 The data showing these changes is set out in part B in the annexed document •
It shows by category for the period under consideration the following annual developmentl
Category C Category D
Total officials
Total emoluments and other economic indicators
Part C of the document shows for the period under consideration and for several preceding periods the main developments in wages and salaries
in the Community. It compares the development in real terms of the gross domestio produot per employed person (+ 5,3) with the development in real terms of total gross remuneration per employee (+ 2,6) and the development in real terms of gross emoluments per employee both in publio administration (general government) (+ 1,5) and in central government
The ohange from an indicator showing total emoluments in publio administration (general government) to one showing total emoluments in
central government was expressly requested by the Council as part of the new method .
IV. Changes in wages and salaries during the period 1 .7 • 1974–1 *7.1975
When the last salary review was made the Commission, in agreement with the trade unions and professional organizations, temporarily abandoned any idea of improving purohasing power*
 The linear reduction of 0,55% in cost of living compensation brought into operation on 6 November 1975 to take account of the drop that
was expected by the national delegations in the purchasing power of their own civil servants' salaries did not turn out to be justified bythefacts. TheCommissioncouldthusask,referringtothepreceding period, that in addition to the rate worked out to give the *PP^iate improvement in purchasing power (0,1%) this increased cost of I1TM®
compensation of 0,55% should also be granted. It has, However, d®cJd®d not to propose a 0,65% rate but to stick to the 1976/75 statistical data in the hope that matters can be settled within the time limits desire •
V. Proposed rate of increase
On the basis of the figures given at III above and fully formulated in parts B and C of the Statistical Office's report the Commission proposes
a total increase in salaries of 4,3%, 4,1% being for increases in the
cost of living during the first six months of 1976 and 0,2% for improvement
of purchasing power.
In view of the modest rate for improvement of purchasing power (0,2%) it
is proposed that as allowed under the method adopted on 29 June 197°
of the non-linearity should, exceptionally, also be applied to the increased oost of living compensation. This method of allocation will certainlynotinanywaybeaprecedentt ontheoccasionofeachannual review the Commission will, taking account of the economic and social
situation and of its internal requirements, decide what allocation it considers the most appropriate.
The allocation being proposed is a linear increase of 0,3% and a flat rate sum of Bfrs 2 212 for all*
This gives the following net nominal and real increases for the following representative grades!
PR Germany France Ireland
Italy Luxembourg
Nominal increase
proceduxes and
Increased cost of living
Difference between Columns 1 oral 2 (real increase)
It is proposed to incorporate the net increases resulting from the percentage increase and allocation formula set out in V above into the salary scales and to make the necessary adjustments to the weightings for the other places oi employment .
The weightings currently applicable to salaries and pensions becomet
( 157,8 "weighting proposed to the Council to be effeotive from 1 April 1976.
 Nètherlands United Kingdom Japan Switzerland USA
It should be emphasized that under the relevant staff regulation provisions continuation of the secretarial allowanoe is deoided on for fixed periods* The latest period expires on 31 December 1976*
The Commission proposes that the Council deoide on a further two-year extension *
Directorate for Demographic and Sooial StatistioB
of the Statistical Office of the European Communities on the establishment of the Joint Index for 1976
(Article 65 of the Staff Régulations)
1 . In accordance with Artiole 65 of the Staff Regulations of Officials of the European Communities and the Council Decision concerning the methods for adjusting the remuneration of officials and other servants of the European Communities (1), the Statistical Office has established the joint index for the period from
1 July 1975 to 1 July 1976.
This report provides a detailed account of the work carried out by the Statistical Office to establish the joint index*
2. The report is in three partst
- part A showB the trend of cost of living indices in the nine Member States and some other places of employment;
- part B shows the trend of oivil servants* salaries in the Member States between the end of June 1975 and ^he end of June 1976;
- part C shows the trend of wages and salaries in real terms per oapita in public and oentral administrations and a number of other general eoonomic and sooial factors.
3* Whenever necessary, the Statistical Office has provided teohnical
explanations. It should also be pointed out, that the calculations
it has carried out to establish the joint index or© based on information provided by the departments responsible in the various Member States.
(1) See Council Dooument R/I582/76 (stat 49 - Fin 414 of 28 June 1976)*
 4« In the comments at the end of the report, the Statistical Office has attempted to comply insofar as possible with points 2 and 3 of the Council Decision which lay down that the Offioe should provide a statistical assessment and explanations on certain data.
Changes in the cost of living indioes
in the EEC Member States and some other places of employment
(1.7.1975 to 1.7.1976)
 1. To calculate changes in "the cost of living over fixed periods of time in the various plaoes of employment the Office uses
wherever possible "international indices'* i.e. , indices covering the spending of international civil servants*
2. There are international indioes for
the Netherlands
For Denmark, Ireland and the USA the Offioe uses the various national indices.
3« For all places of employment except Brussels the international indices have been supplied by the OECD and, for Switzerland, by the ILO, whioh have prepared them in cooperation with the national statistical offices of the countries in question.
4* The index for Brussels has been prepared from a prioe survey made in Brussels by the Indexing Offioe of the Ministry of Economio Affairs and the SOEC.
As rent makes up a large part of officials* household expenditure in Brussels the Statistical Offioe has repeated the Brussels survey on rents paid by Community officials that it has been carrying out since 1963 as part of the work of preparing the joint index* A rent index for Brussels was thus prepared for the period 1975-76
 and was sent -to the Index Office of the Ministry of Economio Affairs to be used in calculating the index for Brussels.
5. In Ireland the cost of living index is calculated only every three months (January. Hayt August and November).
As these periods do not correspond with the index period laid down by the Staff Regulations (July/July) it has been decided, with the Irish authorities' agreement, to use the May/jfay period.
6. The following are the joint cost of living index figures (based on a figure of 100 at 1 July 1975) for 1 July 1976 for the various countries and places of assignment.
 List of tables (1)
Indices broken down by expenditure:
(1) It should be noted that because of rounding off of figures
multiplication of the part index figures by the weighting does not always give the total index figure exactly.
Netherlands Brussels United Kingdom
for the various countries and places of employment
Situation at 1 July 1976 based on a figure of 100 for 1 July 1975
Country or place of employment
Italy Rome
Netherlands
United Kingdom Ireland Denmark
(1) 111,0 without rent•
 III. Household equipment IV. Domestic services
V. Clothing and footwear 100,0
Consumer price indices by expenditure groups at 1 July 1976 based 100 at 1 July 1975
(calculated using the indices prepared by the SOEC)
1 July 1976 based 100 at
1 July 1975 105,1
Consumer price indices by expenditure groups at 1 July 1976 based 100 at 1 July 1975
(calculated by the French national statistical institute (INSEE) usingtheOECDscheme)
III. Household equipment IV. Domestic servioes
V. Clothing and footwear VI. Personal care
Indices at 1 July 1976
based 100 at 1 July 1975
Consumer price indices by expenditure groups at 1 July 1976 based 100 at 1 July 1975
(calculated using indices prepared by the OECD)
III. Householdequipment IV. Domestic services
V. Clothing and footwear VI. Personal care
Weighting based 100 at _i 1 July 1975 .
Household equipment Domestio services
Clothing and footwear Personal care
Consumer price indices by expenditure groups at 1 July 1976 based 100 at 1 July 1975
(calculated using indioes prepared by the OECD)
1 July 1976 based 100 at
1 July 1975 108,7
1 July 1975 110.41 110.96 111,30 111,30
with rent without rent with rent without rent!
Housingj furniture, household equipment, related articles and services
Clothing
Medical servioes and personal care
Culture and entertainment
Consumer price indices by expenditure groups at 1 July 1976 based 100 at 1 July 1975
(calculated from a price survey carried out by the Index
Office of the Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy and weighted using the results of the survey on European civil
family budgets )
1 July 1976 based 100 at
Household equipment Domestic services
Clothing and footwear Personal oare
Consumer price indioes by expenditure groups at 1 July 1976 based 100 at 1 July 1975
(calculated using indioes prepared by the OECD)
1 July 1976 Weighting based 100 at
1 July 1975 1000 114,1 (!)
( 1 ) The SOEC has applied a correcting faotor in this group to compensate for the difference in sickness insurance schemes between the OECD and the EEC.
107,5 (period June-July 1975/ June-July 1976)
101,7 (taken from the index for
the canton of Geneva specially
calculated for the II£ and including rent)
105»6 (based 100 at 1970 period June^-July 1975/
June-July 1976)
Trend of public salaries between the end of June 1975 and the end of June 1976
Explanatory note concerning the calculation of the trend of the salaries of civil servants in the Member States
1 . The tables below give an outline of the trend of the salaries of civil servants in the Member States between the end of June 1975 anc* the end of June 1976 .
2. Tables have been drawn up for each of the nine countries. Tables 1 and 2 show the salaries, for the various countries and the various periods , in the national currencies , as reported to
the SOEC by the
Where comments, weighting) were
The Statistical tables 1 and 2.
responsible departments in the Member States.
technical notes or additional information (for example, supplied with these tables, they have been attached. Office drew up the tables 3 and 4 on the basis of
3. The tables 3 show the trend in the nominal indices for the period from the end of June 1975 "t° "the end of June 1976 for each grade, for each category (A, B, C and D) and as a whole. The different grades
have been broken down aooording to family ciroumstances (single, married with two children, etc.), and for eaoh grade minimum, average and maximum salaries are shown.
The indices show the trend of gross salaries and net salaries (with
taxes and social security contributions deduoted).
4. The tables 4 show the trend in real indices for the seme period and is based on the same faotors as those mentioned above. The real
indioes are obtained by dividing each nominal index by the consumer price index.
'i.'io contuunc r price: indices uued are the origiual indices as published ">y She variowj countries ,
Since the consumer price indices for all the countries except Lxixembourg normally reflect the situation about the middle of the month concerned,
the SOEC took as basis the arithmetical average of the June
indices; these reflect most closely the situation as at 30
However| following a request from the Belgian Delegation of
"Finanoial questions " working party , submitted when the report on
the joint index for 1966 was being discussed, the calculations for Belgium have been made on the basis of the June indices only. The consumer price indices used are shown in table 1 . Since no monthly cof5h of living indices are available for Ireland, with the agreement of the Irish department responsible the indices used for Ireland cover the period from May 1975 +,o May 1976.
')■* The in<ii oas in Tables 3 and 4 ire either average indices or weighted indices** The Statistical Office oonsidored it was worthwhile to retain
these two typon of indioes in order to determine the significance of the weighting.
The average indices are simple arithmetic averages#
The weighted indices, however, take account of the staff to refer .
In view of the distinction made between grades , categories , circumstances and the official's position within his grade, weighting should take acoount of all these faotors.
which they
family an ideal
However, most countries can not or not yet provide this type of weighting and only give staff figures by grade and/or by oategory.
and July June . the
6. The Tables 5 and. 6 are summary tables showing the trend of r?al salaries aooording to officials' categories (A. B, C and D).
The indices in Table 5 are weighted aooording to the struoture of national oivil service staff. Those in Tables 6 are weighted – to provide further information - aooording to the structure of
Community staff complements by oategory A, Bt 0 and D (point 5 of the Omnoj1 Decision of 28 June 1976).
This structure is indicated in the table balow.
Staff of the European Communities
Breakdown by category of staff numbers (permanent and temporary) who oould receive salaries during 1976
■units and percentages
(1) Not inoltiding 447 memfcers of the establishment staff •
Source: Offioial Journal of the European Communities - 19th year No L 66, 15 March 1976.
7. Table 2 gives a recapitulation, of the various indices relating to salaries. The indices for the Community as a whole have been calculated firstly on the basis of arithmetical averages of the salary indices and secondly weighted on the basis of numbers corresponding broadly to the numbers of oivil servants in each of the oountries.
 Tables ^ and 4 are summary tables per category.
3 ndi Ofii U'fi o»> a cowiporeble basis , oi the nurcl/.v. ol u'.v'J :.: nrv ; ujV'■
in eaoh of the ni»« Member 8k*i««»t th* '^0 dP.n^d to u«» no^u f , statistics and ohoso as basis for weighting the total population >i each of the member countries.
The weighting applied for the nine Member States is as follows (0 1 Tôt,al popwJation
Italy Nethei'lands Belgium
Ireland Denmark
«3. J The indices of Table 3 have been weighted with the structure of naaara^ civil service staff and those of Table 4 with the structure of (,^un„ty
( 1 ) Sources S0BC Monthly Bulletin of General Statistics ,
» Germany FR - France 1" ! Netherlands | Belgium I LUXCT^ouivj Kin^dom Irai.and. I Denmark | »!I
I June-July L
..It _ 113,4
(i) Hnlf of Mfly
 Table II - Trends in civil service salaries in Member States End of June 1975 ~b° end of June 1976
Ireland 1,2
Netherlands
Table III - Real salary trend of civil service salaries in Member States from end of June 1975 to end of June 1976 for each of the four categories Af B, C and D.
! fletherlands i
{ Irelsnd t
Table IV - Real salary trend of civil service salaries in Member States from end of June 1975 ––––– end of June 1976 for each of the four categories A, B, C and D.
Community staff)
Middle ofj.' End of jiBesinnintT
End of
j End of jj'Beginningi Middle ' jt End of
Total emoluments of a Federal civil servant in a s enior Federgl authority
(Situation at 30 June 1975:
L' of grade grade fj ^rade (of #rade of greda i £rrde vj of grnde f of grade( ! grade l[of grsde j of grade ji grøde t*
have 'be&n provided
additional regarded as
the beginning of
ttQ third incremental step
** b'or A 5 » A i and A 13 ?
was
the grade .
(Situation at 30 June 1976:
Total emoluments of a Federal civil servant in a senior Federal authority
Beginning , Middle L End of .Beginning i Middle :End of (•)Begirming| Middle End of lBeginninJ Middle End of
of grade of gr^deP grade !of gr?des ! of grade ijrrade !j of gr-^dej 0f gradei grpde £ of grade | of grnde grade » ' 1 \' v lAXTrco».Il II I,
Pay groups A 15, A 16 and B 6 are provided as additional information
third incremental step was regarded as the beginning of the grade incremental step was regarded as the middle grade. I„ the SSii
A 13' the fifth.
Civil Service posts in the senior Federal authorities planned in the Federal budget 1976 (prescribed figures)
Notes on the calculation of the emoluments of a Federal civil servant in a senior Federal authority (as of 30 June 1976).
The following items make up the total salary*
Regional supplement , first level for single people , second level for single people aged over forty years, fourth level for married people with two children
Supplement for post , for working in a senior Federal authority
The annual special payment ( Christmas "bonus ) equal to one-twelfth of the total of (a) to (d), where applicable further raised "by the proportionate supplement for children (DM 8,33).
children 's allowance of DM 50 for each child , as a part of salary , no
The
longer exists since 1 January 1975* Under a general legal regulation,
a tax-free children's allowance is now paid as a welfare payment for all children, whether or not a parent is employed in the public service.
This is DM 50 for the first child, and DM 70 for the second child. To
keep the tables comparable with previous tables, the figure of DM 120 has been added to all figures for married civil servants with two children.
2. The amount liable to tax has been calculated by deducting from the gross salaiy DM 8,33 (one-twelfth of the tax free allowance of DM 100
given in December each year ) and , where applicable , the children 's allowance of DM 120. The wages tax applicable on 1 January 1976 has then been substracted to determine the net salary. In the case of single people,
tax brackets I, or II /for final steps A 15» A 16, B 6 and B 9» were taken
as the basis; in the case of married people, tax bracket III (two children)
was taken. Tax allowance generally granted (e.g., employees' allowance, overall allowance for professional expenses , overall allowance for special expenditure, overall savings allowance) have been taken into account in deducting tax. Church taxes have not been deducted.
Both gross and net figures have been rounded up or down to the nearest
Capital formation payments under the employees' savingB scheme , and employees' savings supplement , have not been taken into consideration .
These payments are subject to application, and vary according to their amount and the time over which they are to be paid. Certain conditions
must also be satisfied . In the same way , health insurance contributions have not been deducted .
of whom: sinp-le married ,
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants * salaries
Average weirhted indices indicée
Average W'eiphted indices indices
$ Sross anount !; M1n. i 4v
Gross am<n?nt :Ail ciL of %'hoi;
Weirh^ed indices
Weifjvted indices
Indioea at 30 June 1976 of civil servants » salaries
Ail civil servants of «rhorn: sin^la
Table 5 ( Summary )
Real weighted indices (National staff structure)
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants' salaries "by categories
Weighting1 ! Gross amount | Net amount ;; Gross amount Bet amount •; Gross amount Net amount Nominai Real Nominai I Real ^Nominai Real Nominal ! Real m Nominal Real Nominal Peal
NOMINAL MD REAL WEIGHTED INDICES (Community staff structure) Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants' salaries Tsy categories
University graduate
Second ary éducation
Overall remuneration before tax of civil servants at 1 July 197S (FF/month)
(1) Basic salary + resident allowance (13$).
(2) Basic salary + resident allowance + family income supplement + family allowances including compensatory allowance + single income supplement (for two children under ten years of age).
( 12 ) Shorthand-typist , 1st incremental step .
(13) Shorthand-typist, 7th incremental step.
(14) Secretary/shorthand-typist, administrative assistant, last incremental step,
(15) Upgrading available to no more than 25$ of staff at this leval, Group rnpervieors, last incremental step.
(16) Service officer after one month's service (guaranteed minimum). (17) Service officer, last incremental step.
(18) Clerical officer, last incremental step.
NB: As in the past, a productivity bonus is added to these remunerationsj appropriation is % of the average salary for eech grade.
the total
 A – (University graduate)
~ (Secondary education) C – (Vocational training)
2 – (Primary education)
(2 1 Basic salary -t- residence allowance +• family 13) fed ■"18} Bra Annex X-
supplement + ( family allowances single supplement net taxable ).
Net remuneration (tax deducted! of civil servants at 1 July 1976 (FFVWth)
Overall remuneration before tejc of civil servants at 1 July 1976 (FF/month)
(1) Basic salary + resident allowance (135°)»
(2) Basic salary + resident allowance + family income supplement + family allowances including compensatory allowance + sinple income supplement (for two children under ten years of age)
(12) Shorthand-typist, 1st incremental step.
(13) Shorthand-typist, 7th incremental step.
(14) Secretary/shorthand-typist, administrative assistant, last incier-iantnl a>p.
(15) Upgrading available to no more than 2^> of staff at this level, Group supervisor?, last incremental step.
(16) Service officer after one month's service (guaranteed minimum). (17) Service officer, last incremental step.
(18) Clerical officer, last incremental step*
52.' As in the peat , a productivity bonus is added to these remunerations 5 the total appropriation 1b % of th, BVe
(l) Basic salary + residence allowance*
(?) Basic salary + residence allowance + family income supplement + (family Ml tv-'nncem + slnple income supplement not taxable).
Wet remuneration (tax deducted) of civil servants at 1 July 1976 (FF/tnonth)
Exceptional/additional tax of 4$ and 8^ deducted.
(3) to (18) see Annex I.
Prijnary gducaiion
Ca-agory j Grau-s
Indisas ax 1 oui/ 197& of civil servants4 salaries
Average Weigr.ted indicés indices
Indices at I July 1976 of civil servants* sailaries (1 July 1975 = 100}
j Dniveraity * ,t 'OT.O !| 100,0 i 99,5 ; *05,4 ; 9?,i j 35,5
| 'Primary jj ! educatici! a ì
£11 civil servants - ox' whom :
Real weighted indices (National staff structtire)
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil sft-vants' salariei ty categories (1 July 1975 » 100)
TTOMTPTAT. AND REAL WEIGHTED INDICES (Community staff structure ) Indices at 1.7-1976 of civil servants' salaries by categories
dominai Real Nontnal Real i' dominai j Real lotinal Real • i' dominai > Real 1 Nominal Rea]_
additional allowance
Konthljr starting salaries of certain civilian service posts (1 1f.'*m:.*;rv to V) Jur.e 1975)
Weight Basic Service Spécial 13th Kontipensionable cnoss Social net total Income HET
salary allowance (a) 0»)
Chief Secretary Z~o "
security contribs .
with 30c • sec . cont dedcuted
Oirector of
'.90 tî5*3~?_ 226.ôi5 Principal Secretary 255»' 155.157
Monthly salaries with step increments of certain civilian service posts SINGLE
equalizing TOTAL security with soc. tax
allowance Iaiiow(ca)nce Ii
IPrincipalSaerstary 297 5 Mi.552 Iâscratary 218 2 143.539
Monthly stai-ting salaries of certain civilian civil service posts (l January to 30 June 1975)
Faaily adouane*
Net total with! Incooe social security tax
addt tlonal allowance
securlty contributions
with social securl ty contrlbs deducted
Chief Secretary Principal Secretary Secretary
A I Principal Director ' 0;poty Director of
Olvlsion j 01 rector of
Monthly salaries with step increments of certain civilian civil service posts (1 January to 30 June 1975)
i. Parlo- Basic Service Spécial 13th «ontn Pensionable Fanlly GROSS Social Net total Incone CT
 Career and Grade
Pension* bf President able >f the equalizlng î«■publie1s allouance
Principal Oirj ctor Deputy Oirectc r A ? of Oi vision
Secretary Clerical: !
Spécial addl tlonal allouance on 13th sonth
of social
securl ty contributions
Monthly starting salaries of certain civilian civil service posts at 30 June 1976
ing and
addl tl onal allouance on 13th aonth
of President of the Republic's Oecree
Securt ty contributions
after deduction of social securl ty
Deputy Dlrec or455 of Oivlslon
Director of Section
Secretary 213
Auxlllary :
Monthly salaries with step tncrenents of certain civilian civil service posts at 30 June 1976
 Career and Grade
Monthly starting salaries of certain civilian civil service posts at 30 June 1976
of Division
Director of 3C7
add)tlonal allowance on 13th ■oath
of Resident equalizing of the
of social
Secrelary ; j •
Prln.Secreiary j»5
Auxlllary :
Republic's Decree lo768/75
 Career and Grade
addl tlona of Presldeni allovance equall zing of the
security I after ontrlbutions deduction of social
Dîrector of Section
Secretary Principal
Sacretary Secretary
Monthly salaries with step increments of certain civilian civil service posts at 30 June 1976
Deputy director of af6n Director of section
of whom: single married . 2 children
Chief secretary Principal- secretary Secretary
Total D Grand Total
of whom: single - married, 2 children •
Indices at 30 Juno 1976 of civil servants* calories
J Deputy director of ¡¡
I Director of
Chief secretary jj Principal secretary*!
Secretary Total B
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants» salaries (30 June 1975 » 10°)
1 Ci . 3 1 or .
All civil servants ·:3,4 of whom: single 9", 3 jiarried , 2 children
Weic^ted inuiccs
Real weighted indices (National staff structure)
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants* salaries hy categories **
l! Total I it IOXoX I
;; Total civil servants Gross amount
NOMINAL -AND REAL WEIGHTED INDICES (Community staff structure)
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants^ salaries Toy categories (30 June 1975 = 100)
Nominai it Real
ffo of the salary scale
TotaJ. remuneration of a civil servant at 30 June 1975 (Fl/month)
2JB» The amounts given for single persons apply to the category up to 35 years of age.
The maximum amounts indicate the levels after extension of the scale .
No of the salary scale
Rémunération of a civil servant – situation at 30 Jvme . 1976
The amounts for single persons*apply to the category up to 35 years of age* ♦The maT-immi amounts indicate the levels after extension of the scale*
No of the salary scale
I Grand total per category
of whom: single married .
All civil servants of whom: single
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants» salaries (30 June 1975 - 1°°)
– ff- it Γ 1
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants' salaries (30 June 1975 - 100)
All civil servants of whom: single
Weighted indices "indices
All civil servants of whom: single married . 2 children
Real weighted indices (National .staff structure)
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants* salaries l^r categories (30 June 1975 - 10°) •' '
NOMINAL AND REAL WEIGHTED INDICES (Community staff structure) Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants* salaries ly categories
161 Directoi-General 132 Advise-p or Director 101 Seniorsecretary
(x) 29.827 21.160(x) 25.067 (xx) 29. 827 I 21.739 (wc) 25. 067
vx) under 21 (xx) 21 and over
Total remuneration of certain representative grades in the Belgian
223 Assistant office superv• 26.235 . 41.498 20.446
(l) Basic salary ♦ index + residence allowance + holiday allowance + planning allowance (2) Basic salary + index + hone allowance + holiday allowance + family allowance +
(3) For the calculation of the net amount, the".follow'int- has been deducted:
sums withheld for survival and orphan fund, sur.s. withheld for sickness insurance ,
professional tax withheld#
Assistant office superv. IAdministrativechief
. (xx) 21 and over
Total remuneration of certain representative grades
in the Belgian civil service at 1 July 1976 (Bfrr,/"or.th)
""T ^ ;; Carried, two children over 14 years of age
(3) For the calculation of the net amount, the following has been deducted: sums withheld for survival and omhan fund
sums withheld for sickness insurance, - . professional tax withheld.
TotalD grand TOTAL
Woig-hted indices
of whoa: single married , two
All civil servants of whom: single
Wex.°hted indices
Weighted indices indices
Ail civil servants of whcm; single
of whom: sincle married , tv:o children
(1 July 1975
Indices at 1 July 1976 of civil servant's salaries
[ Category Weighting
' Real'weighted indices (National staff structure)
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants' salaries fcy categories (1 July 1975 = 100)
NOMBTAL AND HEAL WEIGHTED EffllCES (OOamuntty staff structure)
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants' salaries by categories (1 July 1975 = 100)
Total remuneration of a civil servant at 1 July 1975 (Lfrs/month at index level 237.06) -
++) Basic salary + head of family allowance + family allowances (children).
For the calculation of the net amount the following were deducted: the levy for pension equalization, the contribution to the Sickness'Fund , and taxes .
J Deputy Government Advisor
I Chief Clerical Officer
I Clerical Officer
1 July 1976
Total remuneration of a civil servant as at 1 July 1976
++) Basic salary- + head of family allowance +• family allowances (children).
(Lfrs/month at index level 26.1.65)
For the calculation of the net amount the following were deducted: the levy for pension equalization, tne contribution to the Sickness Fund., and. taxes*
Category B Career:
Deputy Government Advisor First Government attache
1 July 1976
All civil servants ofwhom: single
Indices at 1 July 1976 of civil servants' salaries ( l.7.1?75 - ico )
Wei";hted indices
of whom:
All civil s^rvants or whom : single
of whom: single married .
Indices at 1 July 1976 of civil servants• salaries
- Real weighted indices (National staff structure)
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants' salaries "by categories
NOMINAL AND BF.AT. WEIGHTED INDICES (Community staff structure) Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants1 salaries "by categories
rI Category Weighting IGross amountj[ Net amount 7: Gross amounxT Net amount Gross amount. Net amount
Deputy Secretary (Jnder. Secretary Assistant Secretary
Kax Clerical Officer Age 21
Pax I Senior Personal Secretary Min
Harried mas with two children
Shorthand Typist Typiat
Clerical Assistant
S3.lc.ry Grosr point pzv
iith PT 3735
?r.y aftcr
t'-.rried "an Vith Two Children
leputy Secretary 'idrr Secretary \csictant Secretary
Clerical Officer !cnior-Personal Secretary
Salary Cros3 point ~?.y
Harried Dan with two children
Personal Secretary Shorthand Typist . Typist
V-rric'I ."nr. Vith Two Children.
Iteruty Secretary Ur-'ìnr Secretary Asuiotant Secretary
Executive Officer Clerical Offioor
P rr.onal Secretary Siorlhand Typist Typj.ut
Salary Ko of Staff- Il'.'-nbor Point Salary Salary in-Po.'<t :it ol, utr.if-ii:-
vj.cal Anuistant
Deputy secretary Under Secretary
Personal Secretary Shorthand Typist Typist
Senior Personal Seer. 39 89
ofwhom: single
of whom:
Indices at 30 June 1l/fa of civil servants* salaries
weiTited injices maiccc
Indices at 30 June 1V7u of civil servants' salaries (30 June 1Ç7S - 100)
Deputy Secretary J - _ Unuer Secretary ; - ...
of whorr, :
Real weighted indices (National staff structure )
Indices at 30*6.1976 of civil servants* salaries by categories (30.6.1975 - 100)
NOMINAL AND REAL WEIGHTED INDICES (Community staff structure)^- "
Indices at. 30 June i976 of civil servaj^tsJ-^^lariea «y"categories (30.6.1975 » 100)
Cicrotiry (Zoad cr 2cf-rt2cnt or rir.i=lry )
Tot^l r.or/jr.o ration of certain rc.i:~ in tr.2 Ir^3 ;:
Situation C3 at 1 July Cr.i^hly azcur.t in Irijh ?:un-^) Si­ " LC
,'>■) -ads to cover (:) eoitrib-at?'-3 tewaria widow's n.-.i orr.lnn's ponsior.a, (^) inco=o tax at tfc* r -:•••- c=i-on b-.siu-of tfca 3tiriiri nr.d \z) --clal Volfaro coat:',jut.om.
Total flerur.cration of coriain -radea in tho Irish Civil Service Situition aa at t July (I'onlhly a-our.t in Irinh Po-jl-.vIc)
S;cretary 69 660 722 frir.cioal 212 550 * 601
(l) Includes additions to salary in raspoct of childron, plu3 children's allovrancea distributed through tho fiscal - syaver.* .
(2) Deductions ara aado to cover (a) conitributior.3 towards vidov'3 and orphan's portions, ft;} incoso tax at the standard rates and on tho baaia of tho standard allo-xancca and (c) Socinl Velfaro cont.. Lbutloivs.
Tho 43,273'civil acrvanta serving at i January 1976 have been bet-./ecn the four :li=3cs A, B, C and D in tho c-r.c proportions as were found to apply at 1 January l'.:75. Our ncv: civil scrv.ro ccnaua included
a n :r codinj schecc for civil ncr/ico grades. Tho ar.aiysia of tho cc.naua roturr.a h^.i rot yet been
' 4 '* :1c-cd. and ':o ,nrs rot ir. a monition to the :~.Z0 'crc-aU"cvr. nr. in previous y.-:.r-. t3
i °'?1ir3-0" of -C'.' cor..v-u ::\n it.vjIve-i :.-.o rc-clacciricu- .D.-, of certain jobs (s:.r;,ieuWiy fa tho r'O
'•> rr.-u.oa) vr«ich cccs'-it- for c:=o if tho chiijcu in r.vrsiera fraa 157?r
τ* Weighting t
Department or TCiniotrj
| Acsietant Secretary Principal
Indices at 1 July 1976 of civil servants' salaries Cl.7.1975 - 1C0)
ïii'Ther Executive Officsr
«eighted indices
of whom :
secretary (Head oi|
Uepartne.it or "in)jj u
of whor'S unaarried •^rried ,
of whom: unmarried
Wei£hted indices
Weighted indices
Situation at 1 July 1976 in respect of civil servants* salaries (1.7.1975 - 100)
• . Real weighted indices (National staff structure)
Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants' salaries by categories ' (1 July 1975 - 100) ~~
Bbminal and real weighted indices (Community staff structure) Indices at 30 June 1976 of civil servants* salaries by categories
(1 July 1975 . 100)
Salaries, taxes, etc. for unmarried and married persons
Net annual salary –
taxes, etc. + family allowances
supplementary pension
Married man with dependent wife and two children
Salaries , taxes , etc . for unmarried and married persons Copenhagen 1976 ( Bkr )
Gross annual salary
• contributions for supplementary pension
Family allowance
Married man with dependent wife and two children
(B1) and (B2) of text*
Net annual salary –
taxes , etc . + fareily .. allowance
Ministry for Finance
Pe.y and Pensions Department
Calculation of
the trend in salaries for certain groups of civil servants
from 1 April 1975 1 April 1976, to be used in the preparation by the Community of a speoial salary-trend index for Denmark
1. The report and figures given this year follow exactly the same principles as those of the preceding three years * reports .
2. Reorganization in the central administration in 1974/75 has not
affected salary increases over the previous year in the four groups.
This reorganization , which mainly affected the tax administration ,
has also caused a large increase in the number of oivil servants
oovered by this report (see point 3) i it should be pointed out that
there has been no real growth in the number of posts in the central administration.
3. The figures are based on column (l) in the statement of posts in the notes to the draft Budget for 1976/77, which gives the number of posts
as of 1 April 1975* The number of civil servants covered by the figures rose from 8 281 to 9 646 between 1 April 1974 and 1 April 1975*
As in last year's report, a statement of all persons included in the calculations has been prepared, with details of their division into
pay brackets and the like. It may be mentioned that due to the way
the salary system is set up, a pay scale half–way between the beginning and the end of a grade will more or less equal an average of the salaries at the beginning and the end of the grade.
Concerning the posts which caused the abovementioned growth in the number of oivil servants, it has been found that when divided by basio salary they fall into the four Community oategories in the same proportion as the posts formerly covered by the report . However , some of the new
oates-orv B differ from the others in allowances, mainly the
additional work allowance for auditors, and an allowance or retrai
staff in the district offices of the Ministry of Taxes an-J Levies who staff in the district oilices o .
are engaged in assessment work. The calculations for 1975 and 197* axe engaged in assessment work,
are s-iven in the table below with ar.d without these allowances! axe given in the table below wi
As regards the section of the account dealing with assistant clerks, administrative assistants, and senior and principle administrative assistants, changes in the scheme of the statement of posts this year made it necessary to assume an unohanged relative distribution of civil ■ servants in these foux types of posts within this group of staff. It should therefore be borne in mind that in so far as changes in the numbers of staff do not apply proportionately to the individual Community
categories, this ma.y affect the trend of the average salary. This also applies generally to the other figures.
4. Therehasbeennoohangeinsalaryratesintheperiod1April- 1 July of 1976 either.
5. Anaccountoftheallowancespaidtostaffworkingonagroupcontract basis has to continue to some extent to be based on estimates. For clerical staff the allowances (apart from the allowances mentioned under point 3) amount to approximately 0.2% of salary and are included in it* Allowances to other employees appointed on a group contraot basis axe
given separately, as in the last report.
6. Theattachedtablesshowtheamountsofincometax(inthecommuneof Copenhagen), contributions for supplementary pension, and, where applicab family allowance, for persons in each one of the four categories A to E i 1976. The calculations include unmarried people without ohildren, and married men with dependent wife and two children.
Asagrossincome, anaveragegrossannualsalarycalculatedbythe
Ministry of Finance as of 1 April 1976 has been used for each Community
category. It has been assumed that there is no deduction from taxable
S£oL beyond the wage earners' deduction of Dkr 2.000 and a deduction foi mcome oeyonu
final taxation for.persons unaer „ fibres for \ aa nrvniirable in 1976 has then been calculated. The ligures xox
rules applicable yi state and the commune, church taxation include direct income tax to the btate ana . pension
legislation, which is paid out xn cash and which is tax tree.
Column 4 of the survey shows the annual ^^^^^^g^^ii/allotancr" to IZ ohildren ias been taken into account in the
o*viL vi off??
et who'-.: s5. ??
Indices at 1.7.197(5 of Civil Servants' salaries (20.6.1^75 - 100)
Weirhted indict ' * j
of whoa:
Indices at 30.6.197o Civil Servante' salaries (30.6.1975 - 100)
of whom:
Table 5 ( Summary )
Real weighted indices (National staff structure )
Indices at 1.7*1976 of civil servants' salaries by categories (1.7-1975 - 100)
NOMINAL ASTD REAL WEIGHTED INDICES (Community staff structure )
Indices at 1.7.1976 of civil servants' salaries by categories (1-7-1975 = 100)
1[ Real _ î'Jotinal *: Ssal -_!. Nominal - 1: I
General salary trends in real terms per head in publio administrations and some other general eoonomio and sooial factors
1, TheCouncilDecisionof28June1976Jaysdown"thattheOffice should submit data on the following in its roport i
- real per oapita emoluments in central administrations, calculated in accordance with the definitions etc. used in the national
accounts (see point 3 of the Deoision){
- the gross domestic product per head of occupied population}
- the emoluments per wage-earnor in the* economy- as a whole (roe point 4 of the Decision).
2. Given the Decision's explicit reference to government accounting methods it seems appropriate to f'et out the concepts mid definitions used in drawing up national accounts in the Moinber States, which use the ESA (European System of Integrated Economic Accounts).
Concepts and Definitions
Definition* Thesectorgeneralgovernment(S60)includesall institutional units which are principally engaged in the production of non-market Bervices intended
for collective consumption and/or in the redistribution of national inoome and wealth. The main resources
of these units are derived directly or indirectly
from compulsory payments made by units belonging to other sectors.
The institutional units included in the sector S 60 are the following *
(a) general government agencies (excluding public enterprises established as public corporations or, by virtue of special legislation , recognized as independent legal entities , or classified as quasi-corporate enterprises) which administer, finance and are accountable for a group of activities, principally of a non-market nature, carried on for the benefit of the communityj
(b) non-profit institutions recognized as independent legal entities which are principally engaged in the production of non-market services and whose main resources other than the
proceeds of sales, are derived from payments made by the government departments specified in (a) abovef
( o ) autonomous pension funds , if the premium charged Is not based on the individual exposure to risk.
The general government sector is divided into three sub -sectors * - central govemment (S 61 )
- local governtrient (S 62 )
- social security funds (S 63).
The sub-sector central government includes the administrative departments of the State (1) and other central agencies whose competence extends over the whole eoonomio territory* with the exception of the oentral administration of the social security funds .
Local government (S 62 )
The sub-sector local government includes those types of public administration whose competence extends to only part of the economic territory ( 1 ) , apart from local agencies of the social seourifcy fu_:.ds.
(l) The central administration of the Iiuider of the Feaeral Republic of Germany are part of the Central government sub-sector and nut of the Local government sub-seotor.
Social security funds (S 63)
The nub-soctor social seouxi i.y funds include all central and local institutional units whose principal activity is to provide social benefits and whone main resources are derived from compulsory social contributions paid by other units .
This sub-sector includes , in particular , autonomous pension funds and other insurance institutions when the premiums paid are fixed without reference to the individual exposure to risk of the ifiuured.
CorfW'riSRhion of mnp.Lo.yHeB (R 10)
DofinitLonl The compensation of employees (R 10) includes tAl payments in each awl in kind made by employers in remuii'-ra ! ion for the work done by their employees during the relevant period.
These payments cover*
- gross wages and salaries (R 101 )
Gross wages and salaries (R 101)
the following elements *
wages and salaries ( R 101 ) ( L ) include
basic wages and Balaries
enhanced rates of pay for overtime , nightwork , weekend work
cost of living allowances, local allowances and expatriation allowances
(d) "bonuses bas«d on productivity or profits , Christmas and &ew Year
bonuses, M13th month" pay (annual supplementary pay)
(e) allowances for transport to and from work
(f) holiday pay for official holidays or smminl holidays
(g) commissions , tips , attendance and directors fees paid te employées
(1) Wages and salaries are described as gross because they are shown before the deduction of any social contributions payable by employees and any taxes on income deducted at Bource.
(h) bonus Bhares distributed to employées
(i) payments made by employers to their employees under savings schemes
(j) remuneration in kind, i.e. goods and services, supplied free,
or at reduced prices, to employees for their own consumption (food, drink, tobaoco, fuel, housing, clothing,and meals and uniforms
for members of the armed forces)
(k) housing allowances paid in cash by employers to their employees.
Gross wages and salaries do not include*
(a) expenditure by employers whioh are to their own benefit as well as to that of their employees, such ast
- allowances or reimbursement of employees for travelling , separation , removal and entertainment expenses incurred in the oourse of their duties
- expenditures on providing amenities at the place of work, medical examinations, supplying working olothes (other than military uniforms)
- current expenditures devoted to sporting or reoreational faoilities intended for employees
- ourrent expenditures on the transport of employees to and from work organized by their employers.
These expenditures are inoluded in the intermediate consumption of employers .
(b ) allowances to employees for the purohase of tools , equipment or speoial olothing (except miliatry uniforms) needed for their work,
or that part of their wages or salaries whioh, under their contraots, employees are required to devote to suoh purchases. These expenditures are inoluded in the intermediate consumption of employers|
(c) the amounts of wages and salaries whioh employers continue to pay to their employees temporarily in the case of sickness , maternity ,
industrial injury, disability, redundancy, eto. These payments are treated as social welfare benefits with the same amounts being shown under imputed social contributions.
The employers' actual social contributions (R 102) consist of the payments made by employers to insurers (social security funds, insurance enterprises, central or local government agencies in the case of
civil servants ), for the benefit of their
cover statutory , conventional , contractual
in respect of insurance against the risks of sickness , maternity , disability , old age and survivers , unemployment , industrial injuries and occupational diseases , and in respect of family allowances .
Althoug paid directly by employers to the insurers, these employers' contributions are treated aB a component of the compensation of employees, who are then deemed to pay them over to the insurers.
Imputed social contributions represent the counterpartto sooial benefits paid directly (i.e., outside without any contributory scheme) by employers to their employees or former employees and other eligible persons (1).
The fact that oertain sooial benefits are paid direotly by employers, and not through the medium of sooial seourity funds or other insurers, in no way detracts from their charaoter as social welfare benefits. However, sinoe the costs of these benefits form part
of employers' labour costs, they should also be inoluded in the compensation of employees.
(1) Imputed social contributions inolude an amount equal in value to the wages and salaries whioh employers temporarily oontinue to pay in the event of the sickness , maternity , industrial injury, disability, redundancy, eto. of their employees.
employees . These payments and voluntary contributions
In the accounts of the employers' sectors, the costs of direct social benefits appear first among uses in the generation of income amount, as a component of the compensation of employees, and. a second time among uses in the distribution of income account , as social benefits .
In order to balance the latter aocount, it is assumed that the
households of employees pay back to the employers 1 seotors the imputed social contributions which finanoe the direct social welfare benefits
provided to them by these same employers. This notional circuit is similar to the actual social contributions of employers, which pass through the accounts for households and whioh are deemed to be paid by them to the insurers.
For the valuation of imputed sooial contributions, the amount of which does not necessarily coincide with that of direct sooial benefits, referenoe should be made to the heading R 63#
The compensation of employees may oonsist ofi
(a) the (b) the (o) the
compensation of resident employees by resident employersj compensation of resident employees by non-resident employers } compensation of non-resident employees by resident employers.
These different items are recorded in the ESA as follows:
- the compensation of resident and non-resident employees by resident employers groups together items (a) and (o) and appears among uses
in the generation of inoome account of employers sectors and branches
- the compensation of resident employees by resident and non-resident employers groups together items (a) and (b) and appears among resources in the distribution ofinoome aocount of households
- item (b), compensation of resident employees by non-resident employers
appears among uses in the aocount ourrent transactions of the rest of the world
- item ( c ), compensation of non-resident employees by resident employers
appears among resouroes in the aocount ourrent transactions of the rest of the world.
Definition: The occupied population covers all perBons engaged in some activity regarded as productive (for national
accounting purposes^ whether these persons are civilians or military personnel (1).
The occupied population oovers the following categories of persons :
- wage and salary earners - self-employed persons - unpaid family workers - the armed forces.
(a) wage and salary earners are defined as all persons above
a certain age who, during the relevant period, have worked for
a public or private employer and been paid a wage, salary or equivalent remuneration in return;
(b) self-employed persons are defined as employers and persons working on their own account , provided they are not also in paid employment whioh constitutes their principal activity. In the latter case, they are classified under (a)?
(o) unpaid family workers are those who regularly help to run an agricultural establishment or other business , provided they are not also in paid employment which constitutes their principal activity. In the latter case, they are classified under (a);
(d) the armed forces, which include:
- military personnel, whose origin is the territory, drawn from the total available labour force , and who are on active service in the armed foroes during the period under consideration, wherever they are stationed and whatever their status
- mobile police units and armed patrols of frontier guards who receive tactioal training, are equipped like military foroes and are plaoed under military oommand.
(1) With the exception of oonsoripts, this definition corresponds to that used by the SOEG for its enquiries concerning the labour
The armed, forces do not include:
- security forces - other than those just mentioned under the second item of 2(d) - who remain in oivil employment
- reservists who are recalled for a period of training of less than a month and who continue to be classified as being in civilian employment according to their previous status .
The results of the activity of produoer units can only be
compared with the volume of the occupied population if the latter, as defined above, includes both the residents and the non-residents who work for resident producer units : this is what is meant by the ooncept of the domestio oocupied population.
This inoludes the following items:
- foreign frontier workers , namely persons who oross the border each day to engage in work in the oountry
- foreign seasonal workers , namely persons who move into the country and stay there for less than one year in order to work in seotors which periodically require additional labour
- members of the oountry' s armed forces stationed in the rest of the world
- national personnel of national soientifio bases looated outside the geographic territory of the oountry
- nationals on the staff of diplomatio missions abroad
- members of the orews of fishing boats, other ships, airoraft and floating platforms operated by resident units
- local employees of general government bodies situated outside the oountry.
On the other hand, the following are excluded, from the ooncept of the domestic occupied population:
- nationals who are frontier workers or seasonal workerB, namely nationals who are engaged in work in another country
- nationals who are members of the orews of fishing boats , other ships, aircraft and floating platforms operated by non-resident units
- local employees of bodies of foreign governments situated on the geographio territory of the country
- the personnel of the institutions of the European Communities and international organizations situated on the geographio territory of the country
- members of the armed foroes working with the international military organizations situated on the geographio territory of the country
- nationals working in foreign scientific bases located in the country.
The ooncept of the domestio occupied population is thus different fromtheconceptgenerallyUBedinemploymentstatistics. The latter, which is called national as distinct from domestio, covers personswhoareresidentinthelegalsense. Incontrasttothe concept of the domestic oooupied population the national oonoept
- includes in addition residents working for non-resident producer units
- excludes non-residents working for resident producer units.
In order to be able to make the transition to concepts used in the labour force statistics (the civil oocupied population on a national basis), the ESA provides for the following items to be shown separately at the bottom of Table 5»
1. the armed forces (not included in the labour force statistics but included in the ESA under general government services)
2. residents working for non-resident producer units (included in labour force statiBtios but not included in the ESA)
 3. noiv-residents working with resident producer units (not included in the labour force statistics hut included in the ESA).
As the levels to which the figures of occupied population refer represent annual figures they should be based on the mean occupied populationoverthecourseoftheyear. Whenenquiriesare conducted at several times during the course of the year, the figure taken is the average of the results obtained on these various dates.
When the mean occupied population is estimated on the basis of
a single annual enquiry, the results should be adjusted to take acoount of the fact that oertain people do not work throughout the whole year (for example, occasional and/or seasonal workers) (l)»
Definition: Wage and salary earners consist of persons who work for an employer, whether publio or private, and who
reoeive compensation in the form of wages, salaries, fees, gratuities, payment by results or payment in kind *
The following categories are inoluded:
- persons, workers, employees, personnel, domestio staff engaged by employer under oontraot of servioe (2)
- aivil servants and other government employees engaged under Borne legal contraot of servioe
- the armed foroes, consisting of those who have enlisted for both long and short engagements and alBO oonsoripts
- ministers of religion, if they are paid directly by general government or a private nonr-profit institution#
0)Thus, forexample, apersonwhohasworkedforonlythreemonths of the year should be counted as of an occupied person# On the
other hand, a person who does part-time work throughout the year
is counted as one occupied person.
(2) In the countries of the Community, members of a company's board
of direotors are not, as such, considered to be salary earners.
For wage and salary earners, both their mean employment figure and the number of hours worked are recorded in the ESA.
(a) mean employment represents the average number of wage and salary earners who have worked during the year.
When enquiries are made at several times during the course of the year, the figure taken is the average of the results obtainedonthevariousdates. Whenmeanemploymentis estimated on the basis of a single enquiry during the year, the results should be adjusted to take account of the faot that some people do not work as wage and salary earners throughout the whole year; for example, occasional and/or, seasonal workers (1),
(b) the number of hours worked represents the amount of work actually carried out to obtain a certain output .
In accordance with the norms established by the International Labour Office, hours of work actually carried out cover:
(a) hours actually worked during normal working hours
(b) hours worked in addition to those worked during normal working hours
(c) time which is spent at the place of work on tasks such as preparing the site, repair and maintenance work, the preparation
and cleaning of tools, and the making out of receipts, the invoioes, records of the length of time worked and other reports
(d) idle time spent at the place of work beoause, for example, of temporary lack of work, the breakdown of machinery or aooidents
(e) time spent at the plaoe of work in short rest periods, including refreshment breaks.
(1) Thus, for example, a person who has worked for only three months oftheyearshouldbeoountedas\ofanemployedperson. On the other hand, a person who does part-time work throughout the
year is counted as one employed person.
On the other hand, hours of work actually oarried out do not inolude :
(a) hours which are paid but not worked, such as annual holidays with pay, public holidays with pay, or sick-leave with pay
(c) time spent travelling from home to the place of work, and vice versa.
Oross domestic product at market prices represents the final result of the production activity of resident producer units *
It corresponds to the economy*s total output of goods and services less intermediate consumption and plus taxes linked to imports*
Gross domestio product at market prices is equal to the sum of gross value added at market prices for all the different branches, plus taxes linked to importB*
It is alBo equal to the sum of gross value added at market prices for all the different sectors, less the intermediate consumption of banking services which is not allooated by seotor*
By deducting the consumption of fixed capital from gross domestic product at market prices, net domestic product at market prices
(N 11) is obtained.
The ESA does not show gross (or net) national product at market pricesasanaotualaggregateofthesystem. However,thiscan always be calculated by adding to gross (or net) domestio product at market prices the compensation of employees and the property and
entrepreneurial income received from the rest of the world and by deducting the corresponding flows paid to the rest of the world*
Wage and salary
The development of the economic parameters described, above for the period 1962/1976 (1) is shown in the following tables:
Wage and salary earners in general government (S 60)•
Compensation of employees in general government (S 60)• National ourranoies. Inclusive figures.
Compensation of employees in general government (S 60)• National ourrenoies. Per employee.
Compensation of in real terms.
Compensation of in real terms.
Compensation of inrealterms.
employees in general government (S 60) Peremployee. Annualratesofincrease.
earners in central government (S 61).
Compensation of
employees in central government (S 61).
Compensation of employees in central government (S 6l)» National currencies. Per employee.
Compensation of employees in central government (S 61) inrealterms. Peremployee.
Compensationofemployeesincentralgovernment(S61) inrealterms. Peremployee. Annualratesofincrease.
Table 13s Gross domestic produot at market prices (N 1). Volume indiceB. Peremployedperson.
(1) The tables are taken directly from CRONOS and for reasons of convenience give retrospective statistical series.
Compensation of employees:
Compensation of employees (R 1B). In real terms. Per employee.
Compensation of employees (R 1B) in real terms. Per employee. Index.
Compensation of employees (R 1B) in real terms. Annual ratesofinorease. Peremployee.
Wage and salary earners in general government fe 60 )
B: FB (million) IRL: £ It (1000)
Compensation of employees in general government £> 60)
( l ) national currency units : D: DM
per employee • J
(Deflation by the implicit index of final consumer prices for households on the economic territory)
Compensation of employees in general government p 60) in real terms
(deflation by the implicit index of final consumer prices for households on the economic territory)
123.2f t2V.I|
Compensation of employees in general government (S 60) in real terms (deflation by the implicit index of final consumer prices for
households on the economic territory)
Wage and salary earners in central government (s 61)
Compensation of employees in central government (S 61)
Compensation of employees in central government (p6l )
 Table 10 Compensation of employees in central government (S61 ) in real terms
(Deflation by the implicit index of final
consumer prices for households on the economic territory) Per employee
I IKIt .
( l ) National currency units : Dt DM
It Lit 1000
Compensation of employees in central government (361 ) in real terms
(Deflation by the implicit index of final consumer prices for households on the economic territory)
Annual rates of
increase :
Compensation of employees in central government ?> 6T) in real terms
(Deflation "by the implicit index of final consumer prices for households on the economic territory)
Gross domestic product at market prices–(s 61) Volume indices –
Compensation of employees (R IB)
Compensation of employees(R 1B)
Compensation of employees (R 1B) in real terms INDEX
Compensation of employees (R 1B) & Annual rates of increase
In relation to national accounting figures, it should be pointed out that the statistical sources differ depending whether they relate to the perixl from 1970 to 1975 or "to the single year 1976.
Figures for 1970 to 1975 are supplied to the Statistical Office of the European Communities by the national statistical departments; they are based on the definitions and concepts used in the European system of integrated economic accounts (ESA).
The aggregates presented in this paper are to be published in the two volumes of ESA accounts by the Office (a). They have been filled in
where necessary by estimated provided by the Commission.
An exception is provided by the series of central administration staffing figures, which are not currently provided in the answers
by the national departments to the annual ESA questionnaires. These series have generally been worked out with the help of those responsible in the Member States . Certain countries
regularly prepare these figures for their own purposes and the figures are consistent with those for wages and salaries to which they relate.
Other countries publish figures of this nature in their own national accounts (United Kingdom, Netherlands)5 yet others, such as Denmark, publish figures in specialist publications and they do not necessarily relate to ESA figures. By what is clear is that any systematio error in the figures for the denominator, while having a possible influence on absolute remuneration levels, will not automatically induce errors in the evaluation of year to year trends.
In the absenoe of statistical sources for Ireland, it has been assumed that central government staffing in the reference period represents the same percentage in publio administrations as wages and salaries.
(actional accounts - ESA - Aggregates for 1960 to 1975, No 1/1976• National aocounts - ESA - Detailed tables 1970to 1975, No 2/1976.
Estimates for 1976 are based on economic budgets, in 6ther words on the simplified system of national accounting forecasts drawn up
regularly along harmonized lines by the appropriate departments in the Member States.
No particular difficulty was met in relation to the two general indicators of gross domestic product (GDP) per capita of employment
and in aggregate gross per capita remuneration. But the economic budgets give no explicit forecasts of staffing in central government departments, so that other national forecasts have had to be used or, in certain cases, it was assumed that employment in central government departments would develop in the same way as overall public employment .
A per capita aggregate for the Community of nine was obtained as follows »
at the numerator, the aggregate is converted into EUR for each countryusingtheexchangeratesrulingin1970j theresulting figures for all the Nine are then added together!
the figures for employment in each country are then added at the denominator .
The result of a division of the two series thus gives the weighted average for employment. The deflation of nominal figures for remuneration is carried out by means of the oonsumer price index, also based on 1970. The selection of 1970 as the reference point for exchange rates and prices is in line with the international Convention adopted for the ESA Beries.
Cost of living trend Spécifie indicators
Total emoluments in real terms per capita in public and central administrations
1. Following the new method to the letter, the Office has provided comments in this part of the report on the joint index for 1976 on the various data which have been used in calculating the different elements of the joint index for the period in question.
It should be pointed out that the Office's comments are based on the period 1975-76 and therefore cannot always be generalized.
Moreover, it is hardly surprising that there are Borne gaps in the statistics in this part of the Office's first report on the implementation of the new method, owing to the fact that the necessary statistical data were not yet available or that certain statistical problems still have to be solved by the Working Group set up to deal with them under the new method.
These difficulties are outlined below.
2. Cost of living trend
The different international and national indioes did not oause any problems and we have no remarks to make.
(Trend in salaries in the Member States' national oivil services).
National oivil servants' salaries (gross and net) are generally given by categories and for certain grades in eaoh oategory, by seniority within the grade and by marital status (single and married with two children).
These distinctions are only meaningful if the trend of salaries over the period in consideration really differs aooording to these oriteria and
if suitable weightings were provided.
Tables 1 and 2 below show the information provided in this connection by the Member States *
It can be seen from Table 1 that all countries provide weighting by category. There is also a weighting by grade for all countries except France and Denmark .
Only one oountry (United Kingdom) has provided weighting according to seniority in the grade.
No country has provided weighting acoording to marital status.
Table 2 shows that there are great differences between the countries as regards the number of grades indicated for the categories.
For example, the Federal Republic of Germany has provided information on
six grades in category A as against one only for Denmark. The United Kingdom has given eight grades for category C, France only one.
As regards information on salaries, the differences between the countries are not so great, thou^i, for example, four countries just give minimum and maximum salaries, while one country only gives the average level.
I Netherlands
Data on weighting supplied by Member States
Netherlands A-3
Salaries provided "by: |i
Humber of| per categuxj
Basic data supplied "by the Member States on grades and salaries
With these remarks in mind, an overall analysis ^ carried out or country on these criteria*0 influence on the classification used,
analysis is shown below#
"as diff • 2,6 5-itveen grades of <-_*.ejoriesAan-iB c : lfht variations C: difference0,9 2: difference 1.9
~_vi. serr^rts ' -:itc's Single
trer.3 in cattery 3 trtr.Ja
Other categories: (2)
In all crades ;-'_arried > Sing-e vith ali£ht variaticr.a
(eicept C3 and 32)
Earned} Sir.c.e with slight variations
Ccneral trend (Married ) Single) vith slight variations
of trer.i
A: v&r;/ir-s xn:;irus Other categories: Kir.)Y.ix with viria: ~.cr.: "ceiveen 0,2 £i»d /,4
Ar.ai.vuxo of the r?i'. in rational civil
1.7 Ia c.ich ess*, the differences represent the difference in absolute value between the caxirjs aw '.he
 Countriea L'.'atherLanda
Real net weizhted index
0,1 ions in all 0,5 categories
with slight
Categoi•les and grades
-Jniied tCingdoa
C: Kin > max with variation
between 0,3 and 1 ,2
linearity .
Varying indice i with alight variations .
between 1 , 1 and 1,5-
Varying indices with slight variations
Creat variat­ ions in grader of categories A.3,andC.
I Varying
In grades of Category As
oandD>p 0,53:diff 1,2 C(andD) –A * Cand Ddiff 1 , 1
category C <0,3 to the i
C : Variations bctween 1,0 and 3,0.
grades of all categories .
Complété absence of linearity .
of category A
other categories single > married with variations
between 0 and 0,4 Slight influence
with variations between 0,3 and
Inversely proportional indices
Cat.D : Averoyje not providedj .nin>nax 2,0
Inversely proportional indices
single) with with variations
C and D: Bingl In the grades of
and A/ 3)
with variations
between 0,8 and 1.0
Real net weighted index
Varying married single Indices with
Slight variat-jj ions in all J grades ofot2ner{]
with slight variations
A/42 wide J difference(4,5) Slight Opposite trend influence in some graded
of other |
Inversely proportional
D–A = 4,8 Inversely proportional indices
B and C opposite trend
(1) No country provided corresponding weighting, ( 2 ) Salaries fcy grade were not provided .
(3) Average salaries were not provided.
(4) Dennark; only provided average salaries .
Theanalysisshowsthatthoughthesecriteriahaveacertain nPor , ' itdiffersfromonecountrytoanother. However,wemayconclue
the specific indicator oould be much improved and become raore reaningiuj. if the oountries supplied maximum detai/a.
Assessment of the differenoe between the pross and net_rates,of these specific indicators
Every year, Member States send details to the Office of their servants'grossandnetsalaries. Whenpassingfromgrosstone»up o the present time only those deductions for tat which are used a
national level for calculating taxable income have been tpken into aocour ♦ Civil servants* social security contributions have also been de uo e
from the gross amount.
Bearinginmindthatinthecalculationofnetfiguresfordeerm ng taxable income over the period in question account has not been en of flat-rate or individual deductions and abatements as applied o
individual persons or categoriesf the following observations may e made on the Table below.
Germany 23,9 France 20,4
Netherlands 5,3
– Arithmetic average – Weighted average
Trend of civil servants* salaries in the Member States from end of June 1975 to end of June 1976
Nominal Real n Nominal H
 A further check was made by calculating the salary of a
Bervant with two children in relation to the ? servant for each grade. In both cases, the Offioe
inconsistency in the figures.
Trend of the specific indicator as comparedLtoJhe^tign^ salaries (public and centrar administrations )
Point 3 of the new method lays down that the Offioe
the report on specific indicators explanations on
between them and the trend of total emoluments in central aami
The net trend is lower than the gross trend in all countries apa from Italy.
Taxes and social security contributions have quite a effect in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom an
As might he expected, the top salaries are usually affects. more than the lower salaries (apart from a few exception ).
The Office calculated the relation between the net portion °f
and the gross portion in order to check that the information nuppii by the Member States was consistent.
The Office has already explained these terms in parts B and C.
When comparing the trend of total emoluments (publio and d 1973-1976 administrations) with that of the specifio indioator for ^
in the Table below, it should be borne in mind that thsae two indicate are not really suitable for oorapariaon#
civil . ffnd any
I Netherlands
Trend, of total emoluments and the specific indicator
» It il
6,5 2,5 it 3,4 4,3 7,9 3,7 II - 5,2 7,5 nα
(1 ) 113,4 without "Inner London Weighting". (2) without "Inner London Weighting".
Without going into too much detail , the following major differences should be mentioned:
(1) As regards statistics, the two indicators have been calculated in completely different ways.
(?) The trend of total emoluments includes changes in structure, (staff lumber.) and content (steps, promotions, «<W5jn-
The total emoluments cover a calendar yearj the srerifio indlca or refers to the situation on one date in two successive years
The total emoluments indicator refers to a totalj the epeoifio indicator only oovers some of the civil servants,
The specific indicator for the current year is real} the total emoluments indicator is only an estimate, drawn up on the basis of economic accounts used in economic policy.
etc.). The specific indicator shows the trend of a
where the only possible change is the increase in the salaries certain categories of civil servants used for the purposes of
In view of these significant differences between the two indicators , their respective trends oan obviously vary greatly.
The Table shows that during 1975-76 the trend of the specific indicator is close to the trend of total emoluments in central administrations between the year 1975 and 1976 in Qermany, France, Italy, the Netherlandsf Belgium and Luxembourg, while in the United Kingdom, Ireland an
Denmark, the trends of the two indicators vary considerably.
 The Office would stress that with the means currently available, it cannot provide further explanations or data on the causes for these differences . This could only be done by means of a study and a dp+.alled analysis and would only be possible with the cooperation of the Member States' expertB in both fields.
The Office will therefore contraot the relevant Working Party in March for assistance with this task as laid down under the new m<vthod .
At the present time therefore w© oannot say whether a difference to the ord«r of 4 to 5% in the trend of the two indicators , as in the
data on the United Kingdom , Ireland and Denmark , can be justified ornot.
Two further comments should be made. Generally speaking the trend of the specific indioator is lower than that of the total emoluments indioator , though there are exceptions , as for example during the period in question, the specific indicator for the Netherlands and Luxembourg inoreased more than the total emoluments indicator.
Apart from a few exceptions, the indicator relating to public administration is very close to that for oentral administration.
Finally, the general increase in the two indicators during the period in question lies between 1 »7 and 2.7 for total emoluments in central administration and 0.7 for the specific indioator# Sines on the whole the two indicators concur, and taking into account all
previously mentioned reservations, we have no reason to suppose that either or both of the two indicators are erroneous .
Having come to the end of its first report on the implementation of the new method and also its comments the Statistical Office realizes
that there are some gaps in the report. This is due to the fact that some statistical data were not available or not yet available and
because a number of problems regarding methodology have not yet been solved .
We will give some examples and ways of remedying the situation, at least in part .
1 . First of all , the Office strongly urges the countries to send their figures on the specifio indicator more rapidly than they have done in the past. To help the Office in its job of assessing the figures supplied, all countries should send comments with their figures on the trend in their country regarding salary increases.
2. The specific indicator can still be improved, particularly by extending the field of the survey (more grades, more steps) and by providing , if possible , better and more complete weightings .
3. The Office can only make a valid assessment concerning the difference between the gross and net rates of the speoifio indicators if the Working Party solves the methodological problems involved in the new method.
It should also be pointed out that despite the provisions laid down in the new method (point 2(o)), it is almost impossible to assess the difference between the gross and net rates of the
specifio indicators on the basis of national budgetary data and national aooounts .
As already mentioned, the Office cannot - at least in the short,
term - include in its report on the specific indicators explan tions and figures on the differences between them and the trend of total emoluments especially as the period in qvsstion is still in progress.
Estimating the trend of total emoluments, which are part of bud.get forecasts , is an extremely complicated operation * For statistical and methodological reasons therefore, comparison between these two indicators of the trend in salaries for a preceding period would be more meaningful than for the present period.
We would at least be sure that we were comparing true statistical data drawn up on the basis of common rules.
Nevertheless, the Office will of course oonttnue its research end hopes that , with the cooperation of the national experts in th^s field, it will find ways to overoome these outstanding statistical and methodological problems.
I Irland I alt
Irland Jj 11 Danmark !!
I fait ' B II 100,3 100,4 ! 100.2 > ι·
Land :
Land :
( '.) /.drjj.r>5 Dirntcur Civil 2c:.ic clas.se - aidste échelon .
110.6:1110,61I 113.1 110.5I! 110.1i! 113.3It 110,9 110,4I1113,3 ! 110,9! 110,3
Land * 'GiftJ 2 bom
n . it i!
Land : i; ' ^
I ALT, net-j !to efter fr;■
] ! j-iiold iiT jirsc-
land :
Land : NEDERLAfDENE
Land : NEDERLANDENE
!{ tjenestemand ^
Land % t MJXS:3CCF.a
Land s LUXE.'-OOURO
Land . : LUXEMBOURG
Jeputy Secretary Jnier Secretary lssistant Secretory
îlsrical Officor
Senior Personal Secretary *f•
Gifte stand med 2 barn '
" Ical Assistant
Deputy Secretary Jnder Sevrctary assistant Secretary
5993 Point 6938 7763 Min 2708 . "Ifith Point 3358 3983 5213 5793
Ijith Foist ath Fomtii
nnal Secretary ■thana Typist
ical Assistant
Deputy Secretary Uivlor Secretary Asuiotant Secretary
P -rPonal Secretary Snorthand Typist
Clerical Assistant
57.1 to / J
π Deputy Secretary Under Secretary
A Acsxctant Secretary . 86 Principal
Senior Personal Seer. Personal Secretary
Shortnand Typist Typist
Clerical Assistant P&ÎO I
Brut tobe leb Min.i Mel.
for t ienes temaend ilfiifi
Bemity Secretary » Under Secretary j
Senior Pers . Sec» 99,2 Personal Secret , u 101 f 8 Shorthand Typist S . -
C^crctary 67 600 657 S'rincisal 254- 500 547
Sasretr.ry (Head
of Department or
Secretary (Head of Department or Ministry
λ Aosictont Secretary ■ Principal
c Clerical Officer . Clerical Assistant
Secretary (Head oljl
Clerical Officer n H
I It r
It I
1 its
tjeneetemand Kategorier Lenkluser
Land lodarluodaoa
B or Ct
Land netto-
*#• Irland ~
Det fore . Irland Danmark ' ""-
