Installations (Ohantisrs ) 6
Evolution ta trafic combiné RAIL-fiOTJTB depuis 1571
Hational 33 lutemational 0.5
Cologne-Ma1 land retour
! camions ! poche j
Jovatrans . Trailstar MΝ
Rotterdam - Mailand retour
Antwerpen - Mailand retour
Paris – Mailand retour
Diinkirohen – Mailand retour
Mailand - Hendaye retour
Mailand - Lille retour
Mailand - Lgron retour
 Report on the application of the Council direotive
of 17th February 1975 (75A30/CEE) concerning the establishment of 0council rules for certain oombined rail/road oarriage of goods
Communication from Mr. BURKS to the Commission
The Council Directive of 17 February 1975 (OJ No 48, 22.2.1975) concerning the establishment of oommon rules for oertain combined rail/road oarriage of goods between member states, has freed thiB type of oarriage from all quantitative restriction (quota) and from various administrative con­
The attached report gives information on the application of the said
directive and reports that the initial effects of this miasure have been positive .
The Commission thus declares itself in favour of the permanent maintainanoe of this Direotive, and in addition it evokes a certain number of possible aotians favouring the development of oombined rail/road transport.
To this effeot , and conforming to Article 7 , paragraph 2 of the Directive , the Commission indicates that it will submit proposals to implement these measures during 1978*
It is proposed
- to approve the contents of the report
- to decide that it should be sent to the Council with the communication attaohed .
COMMUNICATION from Mr. BURKE to the COMMISSION
Report on the application of the Council directive of 17th February 1973 oonoerning the establishment of oonraon rules for oertain combined rail/road carriage of goods between Member States*
(OJ of the EC no L 48 of 22.2.1975» P*g«> 31/32)
Article 7fl«t sub-paragraph of the above mentioned directive lays down that the Commission should make a report on the application of the measure and submit any relevant proposals to it to the Counoil before 31st Deoember 1977*
The objeotive of the attaohed report is to meet these terms of referenoe. Consequently, in the first instanoe, it provides infor­ mation on the application of this directive during the period
1st October 1975 until 1st July 1977*
To this effeot the services of the Commission have oonsulted the interested professional organisations in this transport,
- the railways of the group of nine,
- the two transport liaison committees for hire and reward and own
account transport of the IHU (international Road Transport Union) attaohed to the Communities,
 The report refleots the different points of view of the afore­
mentioned organ!eatlone and Indicates some problems of a rather technical
nature which have "been brought to the knowledge of the Commission by economically interested parties*
The Commission is of the opinion that the initial effeot of the Directive must be considered as a positive element for the future evolut­ ion of this traffio .
Therefore , the Commission oan already Bay that , in aooordanoe with Article 7» sub-paragraph 2 of the directive, it will submit to the Counoil during 1978 a proposal with a view to maintaining an a permanent basis
the experimental system already set up and will propose the introduotion of the necessary measures taking into aooount the experience gained.
The Commission , however , oonBiders that the development of combined rail/road transport requires, at the Community level, a global policy whioh passes the limited goal of the directive, involving the solution of problems in areas other them that of aooeBS to the market , some of whioh are already outlined in the present report.
The Commission also envisages submitting in connection with this, during 1973, some proposals favouring the development of oombined transport at community level.
on the application of the Council Directive No 75A3O/feB0
concerning the establishment of common rules for certain types of combined rail/road carriage of goods
(O.J. of the European Communities. No. L 48 of 22 February 1975 pp. 31/32)
( Communication from the Commission to the Council )
INTROBJOTICtf 2 ENFORCEMENT 07 THE DIRECTIVE 2 2.1* Application measures taken by the Member States 2 2*2. Importanoe, developsent and distribution of the traffic 2
2*2*4* Distribution of traffic by transport link 5 2*2*5* Number of wagons assigned to combined carriage 5 2*2.6* Distribution by nature of combined carriage 5
Annex I t Points of view expressed by the carriers and the users interested in oombined carriage
Annex II t Statistics (table 1 to 4)
General considerations on the desirability of stimulating
the development of oombined rail/road carriage 7
Problems to be resolved 8
4*2*1* Authorisation system for tug-units employed in
4*2*2* Tariffs and rate fixing 9 4*2*3* Determination of "appropriate nearest station" 9 4*2*4* Infrastructure 10 4*2*5* Rolling stook 10 4*2*6 * Commercial organisation 11
Général considérations 2 Development of the traffic - Analysis of the figures 3
Contribution of the various commercial combined transport oempanies to thia traffio 4
1.1. In its directive of 17 February 1975 the Council Laid down common rules for certain types of combined rail/road carriage of goods between Member States for a limited period until 31 December 1978. These rules provided especially for the freeing of this type of carriage from any quantitative restriction ( quota ) and the removal of various administrative constraints ( authorizations ) at the latest by
Article 7, 1st sub-para, of the Directive lays down that the Commission shall report on the application of the directive and submit proposals relating to 1t to the Council before 31 December 1977.
In accordance with sub-para. 2 of Article 7, which limits the validity of the directive to 31 December 1978, the Council/ upon the Commission's proposal, should give a ruling before this date, on the system to be applied subsequently.
1.2. The objective of this report is to meet the terms of reference given to the Commission in the 1st sub-para, of Article 7 of the directive. Consequently, in the first Instance, it provides information on the application of this directive during the period from 1 October 1975 until 1 July 1977.
Application measures taken by the Member States
2.1.1 . In accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of the directive of 17 February 1975 the Member States were obliged
to take the necessary measures for the implementation of this directive and to send details of them to the Commission* "before 30 June 1975* On 10 February 1976, the latter Bent them to all the Member States for information *
To sum up the position, It can be stated that all the Member States tried to meet the common fixed compulsory objectives by appropriate and effective measures. The existence of certain problems, as set out below In Chapter 4, does not affect this general positive Impression.
Importance, development and distribution of the traffic
Within the framework of this directive, the current experience analyzed 1n this report covers a period of less than two years up till now. In addition, during the period under consideration, international trade - which since 1950 and
 untU the beginning of the 1970' s had been developing 1n a continuous fashion at an average rate of nearly 7X p.a. - obviously suffered from the effects of the economic recession and the development of transport carried out by combined techniques was temporarily checked.
Consequently, the data concerning the development of combined rail / road traffic should be considered 1n the light of this situation.
2.2.2. Development of the traffic ~ analysis of the figures
On the basis of the statistics provided by the various combined transport companies , the attached table ( Annex II , Table 1 ) gives an outline of the development of rail / road traffic carried out by seml-trallers (Including vehicle combinations ) as well as swop bodies .
Despite taking precautions some double counting has
not been entirely eliminated. With this reservation one can note that the overall gross traffic (national and International) has developed as follows t
The share of International traffic 1n these figures was about 1 million tonnes In 1976, I.e. _+ 19% of the total traffic.
When examining these figures one can see that after
the decline In 1975 1n relation to 1974 the overall traffic for 1976 showed a marked Increase .
In order to put the combined rail/road carriage 1n relation to total freight traffic Into perspective, 1t would be wrong to compare the two overall figures. In fact, 1n so doing, one would come to the false conclusion that combined carriage traffic still plays a rather unimportant r6le (2).
(1) 1977 figures not yet available at the time of compiling this report
(2) Example r 1n 1975, 0.5% of the overall rail freight traffic of the Community
This method does not give an exact idea of the situation because 1t does not compare like with like.
Indeed/ 1n this case, no account is taken of the fact that combined rail / road carriage can only be carried out 1n a rational and profitable way over relatively large distances, over transport links which are fixed in relation to the volume carried and for certain categories of goods. An attempt to draw a comparison on this basis, even though difficult 1n
the absence of objective criteria, does confirm the fact
that 1n certain sub-markets combined carriage already at present occupies a non-negligible share and this Is Increasing.
But this technique will always face certain limits to Its development resulting mainly from the fact that 1t requires the carriage of very important deadweight ( lorry or
sem1-tra1 ler ) . Only the swop-bodies , which container, avoid this Inconvenience.
Nevertheless, International traffic the combined transport companies inside the to be developing strongly (+ 22% during the 1977).
carried out by Community seems first half of
2.2.3. Contribution of the various commercial combined transport companies to this traffic
Combined carriage , which links rail and road transport , and which Is called "ferroutage" ( road/ rail ), 1s carried out through commercial companies with subsidiaries 1n several European countries.
- In Germany the KOMBIVERKEHR Company was responsible for 20% of the international traffic in 1975,
" In Belgium, the T.R.W. Company was responsible for 9% of this traffic/
- 1n France the NOVATRANS Company was responsible for 40% of this traffic,
- In Italy the FERPAC Company was responsible for 2% of this traffic,
- In the Netherlands the TRAILSTAR Company was responsible for 10% of this traffic,
- In Switzerland the HUPAC Company was responsible for 15% of this traffic .
Since 1970 these six companies have been joined by a the A.S.G. Company ( Sweden ) In the " Union Inter- nationale des Transports combines rail/route" (U.I.R.R.).
 In addition a joint rail/road committee has been set
up, with the aim of co-ordinating efforts at an International level for the development of rail / road carriage . The Committee 1s made up of the member companies of the U.I.R.R. and the railways of Member States and of Switzerland and Austria.
2.2.A. Distribution of traffic by transport link
Table 2 (Annex II) shows the main international transport links concerned 1n this traffic. Of the 76 links
29 concern Italy and, outside the Community, one can especially note the connections with Spain and with Switzerland.
2.2.5. Number of wagons assigned to combined carriage
Table 3 (Annex II) shows the number of wagons assigned to combined carriage at the end of 1976, by major categories. Of a total of 2,300 wagons 25% are assigned
to international traffic. Nearly 1,100 wagons belong to the German railways and 1n France nearly 800 wagons belong to the management companies of private wagons .
2.2.6. Distribution by nature of combined carriage
The commercial combined carriage companies use different " ferroutage" techniques . One can make out two main categories :
- techniques where the wagon 1s adapted to the road vehicle (dropped-axle wagons or wagons with guide rails)
- techniques where the road vehicle is planned for adaptation to the rail wagon (special semi-trailer or swop-body).
It has not been possible to give a distribution of traffic by technique employed. One can only point out that
in France, the N0VATRANS Company for the most part uses the kind of dropped axle wagon known as "Kangeroo" while in Germany the kind of dropped axle wagon of the "Aachen" type and swop-bodies of the "Flex1-Van" type tend to be used.
These latter types are currently being employed more and more often 1n all the countries . In this area , as well , statistics should be improved in order to obtain better Information on the development of the various techniques.
In any case the Community should encourage the development of methods which allow simple and rapid trans- shipment With the minimum use of specialised rail vehicles and even more of specialised road vehicles in order to limit the necessary Investments to the strict minimum.
Table 4 (Annex II) gives a list of the main transshipment terminals (rail/road Interchange) for combined carriage, I.e. about 60suchterminalsofwhichhalfare1nFranceand161nGermany. The creation of new terminals 1s being studied 1n Spain (Valencia and Barcelona)/ 1n Italy (Venice), 1n France (Morlalx and Noisy), 1n the Netherlands (Grubbenvorst, Veendam, Flushing, Amsterdam) and In Belgium (CourtraO.
3.1 . In order to provide Information on the development of combined rail/road traffic and especially on the obstacles whioh might hinder Its expansion, this report sets out,In Annex I»1n a succinct manner, the opinions expressed by the representatives of the railways, own account and hire and reward road hauliers, users and the commercial combined carriage companies.
These opinions reveal that there are still some anxieties of a commercial and of a psychological nature which might check the development of combined traffic but, 1n the Commission's view, these could be overcome 1n the light of the objective advantages which can follow for all those concerned 1n this new technique.
Indeed, combined carriage uses rail for long distance journeys and 1s therefore capable of Improving the conditions of rational operation. In particular block trains on well selected transport links constitute a form of traffic which 1s specifically adapted to the modern and profitable operation of the railways.
On the other hand, carriage by rail over long distances allows road hauliers to reduce operating costs, especially 1n the area of labour which constitutes one of the most Important elements of production costs, and to offer the customers a punctual service
which 1s not Influenced by traffic or weather conditions.
Consequently, the Commission Is convinced, as has been proven by the effects In Initiatives already adopted and which have been put in concrete form by the setting up of a joint rail/road Committee, that the Initial difficulties can be overcome in the framework of Increased co-operation between the two transport modes and by the adoption of adequate measures aimed at better guaranteeing their respective interests.
The summary of observations In Annex I already allow oertain factors whioh are oapable of playing a role in the political activities concerning this eeotor in the future to be brought out*
 Finally, the Commission considers that the pilot-effect
of the directive should be considered as a positive element, for th«
period in th« immediate past and above all for the future development of this traffic. This directive should be made
permanent as 1t alms at rail and road transport complementing one another and falls Into line with those actions which take account
of the general Interest and especially of the obligations of energy policy and regional development. In addition Its extension to
International carriage with third countries could be considered. The Commission even believes that 1t would be appropriate to study 1n greater depth the question of long distance national carriage with the aim that 1t should benefit from an analogous system.
4.1 * General considerations on the desirability of stimulating the development of combined rail/road carriage
At first sight, the "ferroutage" technique allows all Interested parties to benefit
the railways; 1t allows them to bring 1n new traffic to be carried over long distances;
road hauliers: 1t brings advantages of safety, regularity and speed of carriage over long distances;
users: 1t brings together the advantages of door-to-door and rail carriage;
the community: finally 1t brings a reduction In road traffic and, consequently, an Increase 1n safety while at the same
time making a contribution towards protection of the environment .
This "ferroutage" technique Implies close co-operation between the various transport modes both at Investment level and at management
level. The narrow nature of the European land area tends to oblige most of this traffic to cross at least one frontier. Therefore 1t 1s necessary to encourage close co-operation, on the one hand between the various railway undertakings of the Community and on the other of the various road haulage undertakings both for hire and reward and own account, Including also transport agents.
The development of this technique therefore requires a dynamic Investment policy at Community level, while at the same time
avoiding the simultaneous development of too many transport systems, and co-operation at management level by common actions 1n developing, stimulating and commercialising this kind of carriage.
The public authorities who, generally speaking, are 1n favour of the development of combined transport 1n which they can see the benefits of economy of energy and the reduction of traffic on the main roads, could encourage this development by certain positive measures as long as they avoid the creation of distortions 1n the conditions of competition with classical transport modes.
 -8- 4.2 . Problems to be resolved
On the basis of Information at the Commission's disposal, the normal operation of the directive still comes up against the following difficulties in particular !
A. 2.1 . Authorization system for tug-units employed In terminal runs
Under the terms of Article 2 of the directive, combined carriage which comes under the criteria set out in the first article is freed from any quota or authorization system. However, Article 6 provides that national regulations concerning the conditions of admission to the profession and of access to the transport market shall not be altered . Thereby , vehicles used in combined carriage should, as 1n the past, be covered by national authorizations and come under national quotas Insofar as such instruments are found in the national regulations of the various Member States .
In the light of information received, "by the Commission, it Beems that this situation oould raise problems which must be elaborated from the point of view of the subsequent Bystemf the following two questions are oonoerned I
the requirement that a tug unit belonging to a foreign company, stationed in a Member State for the purpose of effecting the terminal runs of Its own semi-trailers, trailers or swop-bodies, should satisfy the national provisions of that Member State in­ sofar as quotas and authorizations are concerned;
- the fact that the terminal runs of semi-trailers, trailers or swop-bodies used 1n own-account carriage are considered as if they were for hire and reward subject to authorization when the tug-units do not fulfil the conditions provided for own- account carriage .
In order that everything 1B done to stimulate combined
rail/road transport, the Commission considers that more suitable solutions must be looked for*
Whatever the circumstances the Commission is convinced of the fact that the development of combined carriage,
boosted by all interested parties, risks being held back and
possibly even blocked as long as some situations come under too bureaucratic a treatment .
4.2.2 . Tariffs and rate fixing
The fixing of attractive rates is an important element which will decide the future of combined rail/road carriage.
It is necessary to understand that the term "attractive" includes especially that the rates for carriage by rail should, on the one hand, prompt the road haulier to give up door-to-door carriage because of the greater costs involved and to choose combined carriage instead because of its less costly operation. On the other hand the rate should also be commercially acceptable to the railways.
This last condition means that the revenues from combined carriage should, in the long run, allow the railways
to cover the complete cost of this traffic. The question as
to whether this is already the situation or could, in any
case, be the situation 1n the future, is a problem which deserves detailed study. Depending upon the results of this study, the question could be asked as to whether combined carriage by rail could be exempted from the requirement that it should be a commercial service, at least during a certain experimental period.
In the context of this report this question can only be raised and not studied in depth. Above all the reply will depend on the degree of importance to be attributed to combined rail/road carriage within the framework of a transport policy based on the public interest.
Apart from this question of transport rates the offer of a quality service, guaranteeing users both rapid and regular conveyance, is also a not unimportant factor capable of contributing towards the development of combined carriage.
4.2.3. Determination of "appropriate nearest station"
The Commission considers that it is necessary that the two criteria should be
judged separately for each transport service . They should , incidentally, be put forward in a cumulative way, in the sense that the "nearest" station from the point of view of the distance is not appropriate when, as much from the technical as from the commercial angle, it is not considered for optimum operation of such carriage.
Consequently/ the Commission believes that It would be appropriate to prove flexibility 1n Implementing this concept or to Improve the present text of the directive 1n order to take adequate account of the practical transport requirements.
The development of combined transport also depends on the possibilities for creating and modernising the rail/road trans- shipment centres. These centres should be well chosen 1n such a
way as to allow the establishment at Community level of a network
of complete trains which/ by the ease of circulation they offer and the lowering of costs which result cannot fall to encourage combined
The financial implications of the localisation of these transshipment centres can be very important. The multi-modal nature
of these centres in fact requires that they should be surrounded by sufficient and fluid road routes .
In this sector^ financial action by the States and by the Community could be necessary 1n the form of subsidies fixed at a rate based on a proportion of the corresponding Infrastructure costs and on the necessary equipment for the road share of the technique.
Such actions should be planned together and carried out within the framework of an overall plan with an Integrated view not only for "ferroutage" but also for the gantry cranes at the "trans- container" yards which could be common user on condition that payment is made for their use.
Investments 1n rail rolling stock are usually made by the railways concerned . In France / nevertheless / it 1s the " Soc16t6 d'Equlpement des Grands Itin6raires " ( SEGI ) which buys the necessary special wagons. When this company was set up banks and builders of rolling stock provided capital and are therefore concerned in the development of combined transport.
The SEGI draws up its orders on the basis of the needs expressed by NOVATRANS and hires out all its vehicle stock to that company for a length of time equivalent to the usual use and amortisation period of the wagons.
In order to ensure the optimum adaptation of the vehicle stock to the needs at Community level one wonders whether it might not be worthwhile creating an international company on the lines of the SEGI company .
This company could progressively encourage greater uniformity of the too great diversity of "ferroutage" techniques which leads to poor profitability of the investments.
In fact the multiplicity of techniques both on the railways side with the different types of wagon and on the road side with the variety of semi-trailers or again the diversity of handling methods lead to a wastage
of resources , especially at the international level .
In conclusion it would be desirable for the hauliers concerned to work together towards defining uniform equipment .
An Investigation Into the possibilities of Improving the organisation of combined transport is mainly the responsibility of the undertakings themselves.
4.2.6.1 . As far as railways are concerned the Commission has the impression, confirmed moreover by the experts, that an action based on more confidence and on a better understanding of the common Interest will usefully contribute towards a development of this Interesting traffic.
The Commission has no criticisms to offer on any particular points. However 1t has highlighted a point which 1s capable of being Improved. It concerns its proposal aiming at mutual communication of the specific costs of carriage by complete trains 1n which some railway undertakings participate (1).
The Idea behind this suggestion, i.e. greater co-operation between the railway undertakings, could be developed further than
the aspect of costs alone.
4.2.6.2. As far as road hauliers and forwarding agents are concerned the creation of specialized companies for combined carriage has led to the solution of many organizational problems, and
without doubt the most important ones. During consultation between the Commission's services and the relevant sectors the question
was asked as to whether an appeal would be useful when the
opportunity offers , to the services of the "Bureau de rapprochement des entreprises " ( set up in the Commission ) 1n order to find a solution to the present or future problems concerning combined carriage .
The Commission would merety put forward this Idea. In cases where the governments also Qonsider that this idea is worth taking Into consideration there is nothing to stop this question being studied more deeply.
Nevertheless, in the Commission's view, problems of organization should be settled first of all by the undertakings themselves. This holds for the size of combined carriage under­ takings, the breadth of their field of activity, their commercial activities as well as "last but not least" their competitive policy (including the fairly delicate question of their behaviour vis k vis the companies for the transport of containers which are subsidiaries of the railway companies).
Article 6 of the proposed Council ( EEC) regulation concerning the fixing of uniform principles for the calculation of the costs of railway undertakings (OJ N° C 155/10 of 2 July 1977)
 4*2.6.3* On the sun* lines it is worth mentioning also that the share of own account transport in combined carriage does not seen to have been settled everywhere in a satisfactory way. Whatever the circumstances the
•own-aooount representatives oomplain of the faot that in seme Member
States their direct admission to combined carriage work is made difficult by exaggerated conditions in the seotors of fixing of rates and of organis­ ation, especially by making them work through transport agents.
On the one hand one oannot criticise the railway undertakings for selling their combined carriage services at a greater oost to a Bingle firm using ooobined carriage on own aooount than to major customers such as specialised combined carriage companies. These latter advanoe the argument that they
are responsible primarily for looking after the interests of their members. But, on the other hand, it does not seem Justified to require the services
of a transport agent every time.
A solution could be found in fixing a rate whioh is eoonanioally justified and whioh does not allow any discrimination for own-aooount transport.
In addition the greater the share of these latter in combined carriage
the greater the need to oall upon the specialised oombined carriage com­ panies. whioh will also provide them with eoonomio advantages.
5.1 . The list of problems above is no doubt non-exhaustive . The CommiBsion can only highlight those situations of whioh it has been in­ formed by the relevant eoononio seotors. It is not out of the question that the discussion of this report will reveal cbher features to be in­ cluded or the need to make some corrections.
Nevertheless it is worthwhile again drawing attention to the faot that the Commission, in accordance with its terms of referenoe, haB refrained from submitting concrete proposals on the oombined trans­ port .
5.2. The Commission, in accordance with sub-paragraph 2 of Article 7 of the direotive, oovered by this report, will submit a proposal during 1978 on the measures to-be implemented in order to encourage the develop­
ment of MferroutageM whioh will replaoe the system set up under the present direotive after 31 December 1978.
 Points of view expressed by the carriera and the users interestedin oanbined carriage
Railwave* point of view
The railway undertakings made the observation that the liberalisat– ion of oanbined carriage has had a positive influence an the behaviour of some road transport undertakings which have adapted their investment
to the possibilities of combined oarriage.
On the other hand, they oonsider that the effect of this freedom have been more favourable if the quotas for "pure" road transport, they exist, had been stabilised or reduoed* The railways state that has bean rather more a tendency towards increasing the quotas and
oould
where
there
that the greater freedom resulting from the direotive has led to increased competition*
The railway undertakings are in favour of measures whioh would tend to develop combined carriage more, even if this were combined with a revenue whioh was inferior to that obtained from other traffio. But they demand, in return, that this traffio should be deducted from road haulage and not from railway traffio whioh is oarried out by other more profitable rail techniques*
It is for this reason that they are in favour of an adjustment of the road transport quotas based on the aotivity recorded for combined oarriage following its possible development * In this report the whole range of "pure road" transport aotivity and "oombined transport" should be considered as road activities.
The railways do not, through these demands, wish to interfere in the commercial management of the road hauliers.
Point of view of the hire and reward road hauliers
The professional carriers of freight by road oonsider, on the other hand, that the direotive is capable of distorting the conditions of com­ petition between the oombined carriage technique and that of the olassical oarriage of freight by road. This influenoe would be especially strength­ ened if the directive and its objectives were used as a pretext for re­ fusing neoessary alterations of the authorisation system for aooess to the market in the road goodB transport market.
In addition the road hauliers fear that the railways oould cancel the oombined carriage services or discourage their development by alter­
ing the tariffs or by refusing to improve the organisation of the ser­ vices. Such aotion oould affeot their independence*
Despite these reservations hire and reward road hauliers are in favour of an extension of the direotive on condition, however, that no
oombined carriage and that of road goods transport oapacity, and that in this regard the promotion of combined oarriage stays neutral*
3. Point of view of own-aocount road hauliers and UBers
The point of view of the own-account haulier is more or less the same* This transport seotor is also opposed to the idea that ocmbined oarriage
should be used as an instrument "against" road haulage and "in favour"
of the railways* It underlines especially the need to leave the oommeroial management of combined oarriage to the road transport undertakings*
This opinion is in aooordanoe with the theme of the transport users whioh is also against any "artificial" oo-ordination between railway and road and whioh considers that it would be as well , first of all , to leave the deoision in the matter of future development of ocmbined oarriage to the market situation *
4* Point of view of the oommeroial combined transport companies
The member companies of U.I.R.R* (Union Internationale des trans­ ports oombinSs rail/route) are in general positive as regards the direotive* In particular they point out the reduotion in the administrat­ ive structure and the removal of certain disadvantages suoh as the delays oaused by the IOBS of authorisations, the time required for obtaining them and the refusal of loads beoauBe of unrenewed authorisations. In general these undertakings noted a greater flexibility in operations*
In any oase they are in favour of maintaining the present system even
if only beoauBe of the brief length of the experimental period Binoe
"between the regulation and oantraot of
4 Main depots (terminals) for oomMned carriage
Development of rail/road traffio
3 Wagons used, for combined oarriage
Development of rail/road combined carriage since 1971
in semi–trailers (including vehicle combinations) and swop bodies of l?m and 2 x 7*
(indices calculated in relation to 1971) !971 1972 1973
Number in 1000 units Tonnage in 1000 tonnes
 Ν· Companies Traffio Link
Cologne–Mailand return
Neuss-(see Cologne ) Mannheim (see Cologne)
Tug-unite and lorries
Semi-trailers "pooket" Swop Total wagons Bodies
Wagon fleet used for combined oarriage Speoialised wagons for i
of whioh 45 international
Table 4 Main depots (terminals) for combined rail/road carriage
I International LJ
National 33 32 International 0.5 (1.200 100 3
Cologne-Mailand A retour A
poche mobi les 4a:2à
– Mail and
Antwerpen ~ Mailand retour
Durikirchen – Mailand retour
Mailand - Lille retour
Mailand - Lyon retour
Köln – Mailand retour
Rotterdam – Mailand retour
I Htttiocal 54 1.076 100 59 1*150 107 64 1.254 117 72 1*366 127 62 1*108 103 67 1*186 110
■ational 33 International 0.5
Cologne-Mailand retour
 Bruto ton 2981 3668
Development or raO/rosd ccarildjiea. carriage since 1971
In seai–trailers (icalu^ir^g veMde c^inhiTiations) ana swap bodies of 1?TM ami 2 x 7m
Number in 1000 units Tonnage in 1000 tonnes
(indices ca2.©ui.a4;e2l is relation to 1971) 1972 1973
x) estimated figure
it H it H
h H Mannheim (see Cologne)
Main depots (terminals) for combined rail/road carriage Transshipping method
Report on the application of the Council directive of 17th February 1975 concerning- the establishment of common rules for certain combined rail/road carriage of goods between Member States.
down that the Commission should make a report on the application of the measure and submit any relevant proposals to it to the Council before 31st December 1977*
Report on the application of the Council directive of 17th February 1975 concerning the establishment of common rules for certain combined rail/road carriage of goods between Member States.
(OJ of the EC no L 48 of 22.2.1975* Pages 31/32)
The objective of the attached report is to meet these terms of reference . Consequently , in the first instance , it provides infor­ mation on the application of this directive during the period
1st October 1975 until 1st July 1977-
To this effect the services of the Commission have consulted the interested professional organisations in this transport ,
– the railways of the group of nine,
– the two transport liaison committees for hire and reward and own
account transport of the IHU (International Road Transport Union) attached to the Communities,
7»l s"t sub-paragraph of the above mentioned directive lays
 Th9 report reflects the different points of view of the afore­ mentioned organisations and indicates soae problems of a rather technical nature vhioh ]iave been brought to tha knowledge of the Commission by economically interested parties.
The Commission is of the opinion that the initial effect of the Directive must be considered as a positive element for the future evolut­ ion of this traffic .
Therefore , the Commission can already say that , in accordance with Article 7 » sub–paragraph 2 of the directive , it will submit to the Council during 197$ a proposal with a view to maintaining on a permanent basis
the experimental system already set up and will propose the introduction of the necessary measures taking into account the experience gained.
The Commission , however , considers that the development of combined rail/road transport requires, at the Community level, a global policy which passes the limited goal of the directive, involving the solution of problems in areas other than that of access to the market, some of which are already outlined in the present report.
The Commission also envisages submitting in connection with this, during 1978, seme proposals favouring the development of combined transport at community level*
on the application of the Council Directive No 75/l30/feEC
concerning the establishment of common rules for certain types of combined rail/road carriage of goods
of the European Communities , No . L 48 of 22 February 1975 pp . 31 / 32 )*
( Communication from the Commission to the Council )
2.1. Application measures taken by the Member States 2
2.2o Importance , development and distribution of the traffic 2 2.2.1. General considerations 2
2.2.2. Development of the traffic – Analysis of the figures 3
2.2.3. Contribution of the various commercial combined transport companies to this traffic 4
2.2.4* Distribution of traffic by transport link 5 2.2.3. Number of wagons assigned to combined carriage 5 2.2.6. Distribution by nature of combined carriage 5
4.1. General considerations on the desirability of stimulating
the development of combined rail/road carriage 7
4.2. Problems to be resolved 8
4*2.1* Authorization system for tug-units employed in terminal runs 8
4*2.2. Tariffs and rate fixing 9 4.2*3* Determination of "appropriate nearest station'1 9 4*2.4* Infrastructure 10
Annex I 1 Points of view expressed by the carriers and the users interested in combined carriage
Annex II : Statistics (table 1 to 4)
1.1. In its directive of 17 February 1975 the Council laid down common rules for certain types of combined rail / road carriage of goods between Member States for a limited period until 31 December 1978. These rules provided especially for the freeing of this type of carriage from any quantitative restriction ( quota ) and the removal of
various administrative constraints ( authorizations ) at the latest by 1 October 1975 .
Article 7, 1st sub-para, of the Directive lays down that the Commission shall report on the application of the directive and submit proposals relating to it to the Council before 31 December 1977.
In accordance with sub-para. 2 of Article 7, which limits the validity of the directive to 31 December 1978, the Council, upon the Commission's proposal, should give a ruling before this date, on the system to be applied subsequently.
1.2. The objective of this report is to meet the terms of reference given to the Commission in the 1st sub-para, of Article 7 of the directive. Consequently, in the first instance, it provides information on the application of this directive during the period from 1 October 1975 until 1 July 1977.
Application measures taken by the Member States
2.1.1. In accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of the directive of 17 February 1975 the Member States were obliged
to take the necessary measures for the implementation of this directive and to send details of them to the Commission, before 30 June 1975* Q*1 10 February 1976f "the latter sent them to all the Member States for information .
To sum up the position, it can be stated that all the Member States tried to meet the common fixed compulsory objectives by appropriate and effective measures. The existence of certain problems, as set out below in Chapter 4, does not affect this general positive impression.
Importance, development and distribution of the traffic
Within the framework of this directive, the current experience analyzed in this report covers a period of less than two years up till now. In addition, during the period under consideration, international trade - which since 1950 and
urvril the beginning of the 1970' s had been developing in a continuous fashion at an average rate of nearly 7% p. a . - obviously suffered from the effects of the economic recession and the development of transport carried out by combined techniques was temporarily checked .
Consequent ly , the data concerning the development of combined rail/road traffic should be considered in the light of this situation .
2.2.2. Development of the traffic - analysis of the figures
On the basis of the statistics provided by the various combined transport companies , the attached table ( Annex II , Table 1) gives an outline of the development of rail/road traffic carried out by semi-trailers (including vehicle combinations ) as well as swop bodies .
Despite taking precautions some double counting has
not been entirely eliminated. With this reservation one can note that the overall gross traffic (national and international) has developed as follows :
The share of international traffic in these figures was about 1 million tonnes in 1976, i.e. _+ 19% of the total traffic .
When examining these figures one can see that after
the decline in 1975 in relation to 1974 the overall traffic for 1976 showed a marked increase .
In order to put the combined rail/road carriage in relation to total freight traffic into perspective, it would be wrong to compare the two overall figures. In fact, in so doing, one would come to the false conclusion that combined carriage traffic still plays a rather unimportant role (2).
(1) 1977 figures not yet available at the time of compiling this report
(2) Example : in 1975, 0.5% of the overall rail freight traffic of the Community
This method does not give an exact idea of the situation because it does not compare like with like .
Indeed, in this case, no account is taken of the fact that combined rail / road carriage can only be carried out in a rational and profitable way over relatively large distances,
over transport links which are fixed in relation to the volume carried and for certain categories of goods. An attempt to draw a comparison on this basis, even though difficult in
the absence of objective criteria, does confirm the fact
that in certain sub-markets combined carriage already at present occupies a non-negligible share and this is increasing.
But this technique will always face certain limits to its development resulting mainly from the fact that it requires the carriage of very important deadweight ( lorry or semi-trailer). Only the swop-bodies, which resemble a container, avoid this inconvenience.
Nevertheless , international traffic carried out by the combined transport companies inside the Community seems
to be developing strongly (+ 22% during the first half of 1977).
2.2.3. Contribution of the various commercial combined transport companies to this traffic
Combined carriage , which links rail and road transport , and which is called "ferroutage" (road/rail), is carried out through commercial companies with subsidiaries in several
- In Germany the KOMBIVERKEHR Company was responsible for 20% of the international traffic in 1975,
- In Belgium, the T.R.W. Company was responsible for 9% of this traffic/
- in France the NOVATRANS Company was responsible for 40% of this traffic,
- In Italy the FERPAC Company was responsible for 2% of this traffic,
- In the Netherlands the TRAILSTAR Company was responsible for 10% of this traffic,
- In Switzerland the HUPAC Company was responsible for 15% of this traffic .
Since 1970 these six companies have been joined by a seventh, the A.S.G. Company (Sweden) in the "Union Inter- nationale des Transports combines rail/route" (U.I.R.R.).
 In addition a joint rail/road committee has been set UP.» wich the aim of co-ordinating efforts at an international level for the
development of rail/road carriage. The Committee is made
up of the member companies of the U.I.R.R. and the railways of Member States and of Switzerland and Austria.
2.2.4. Distribution of traffic by transport link
Table 2 (Annex II) shows the main international
transport links concerned in this traffic. Of the 76 links
29 concern Italy and, outside the Community, one can especiall note the connections with Spain and with Switzerland.
2.2.5. Number of wagons assigned to combined carriage
Table 3 (Annex II) shows the number of wagons assigned to combined carriage at the end of 1976, by major categories. Of a total of 2,300 wagons 25% are assigned
to international traffic. Nearly 1,100 wagons belong to the German railways and in France nearly 800 wagons belong to the management companies of private wagons.
2.2.6. Distribution by nature of combined carriage
The commercial combined carriage comoanies use different "ferroutage" techniques. One can ma!-.<? out two main categories :
- techniques where the wagon is adapted to the road vehicle (dropped-axle wagons or wagons with guide raiIs)
- techniques where the road vehicle is planned for adaptation to the rail wagon (special semi-trailer or swop-body).
It has not been possible to give a distribution of traffic by technique employed. One can only point out that in France, the N0VATRANS Company for the most part uses the
kind of dropped axle wagon known as "Kangeroo" while in Germany the kind of dropped axle wagon of the "Aachen" type and swop-bodies of the "Flexi-Van" type tend to be used. These latter types are currently being employed more and mo' often in all the countries. In this area, as well, statist should be improved in order to obtain better information on the development of the various techniques.
In any case the Community should encourage the development of methods which allow simple and rapid trans- shipment with the minimum use of specialised rail vehicles
even more of specialised road vehicles in order to limit tf necessary investments to the strict minimum.
Table 4 (Annex II) gives a List of the main transshipment terminals (rail/road interchange) for combined carriage, i.e. about 60 such terminals of which half are in France and 16 in Germany. The creation of new terminals is being studied in Spain (Valencia and Barcelona ), in Italy ( Venice ), in France ( Morlaix and Noisy ), in the Netherlands (Grubbenvorst, Veendam, Flushing, Amsterdam) and in Belgium ( Courtrai ).
3.1. In order to provide information on the development of
combined rail / road traffic and especially on the obstacles which might hinder its expansion , this report sets out,in Annex I , in a succinct manner , the opinions expressed by the representatives of the railways , own account and hire and reward road hauliers, users and the commercial combined carriage companies .
These opinions reveal that there are still some anxieties of a commercial and of a psychological nature which might check the development of combined traffic but, in the Commission's view, these could be overcome in the light of the objective advantages which can follow for all those concerned in this new technique.
Indeed, combined carriage uses rail for long distance journeys and is therefore capable of improving the conditions of rational operation. In particular block trains on well selected transport links constitute a form of traffic which is specifically adapted to the modern and profitable operation of the railways.
On the other hand, carriage by rail over long distances allows road hauliers to reduce operating costs, especially in the area of labour which constitutes one of the most important elements of production costs, and to offer the customers a punctual service
which is not influenced by traffic or weather conditions.
Consequently, the Commission is convinced, as has been proven by the effects in initiatives already adopted and which have been put in concrete form by the setting up of a joint rail/road Committee, that the initial difficulties can be overcome in the framework of increased co-operation between the two transport modes and by the adoption of adequate measures aimed at better guaranteeing their respective interests .
The summary of observations in Annex I already allow certain factors whioh axe capable of playing a role in the political activities concerning this sector in the future to be brought out.
speed of carriage over long distances ;
the community: finally it brings a reduction in road traffic and , consequently , an increase in safety while at the same
time making a contribution towards protection of the environment .
carried over long
Finally, the Commission considers that the pilot-effect
of the di active should be considered as a positive element , for the
period in the immediate past and above all for the future development of tlvs traffic . This directive should be made oermarent as it aims at rait and road transport complementing one another and falls into line with those actions which take account
of the gr-neral interest and especially of the obligations of energy policy and regional development. In addition its extension to international carriage with third countries could be considered. The Commission even believes that it would be appropriate to study in greater depth the question of long distance national carriage with the aim that it should benefit from an analogous system.
A. 1 . General considerations on the desirabi lity of stimulating the development of combined rail/road carriage
At first sight , the " ferroutage" technique allows all interested parties to benefit
the railways: it allows them to bring in new traffic to be
brings advantages of safety , regularity together the advantages of door- to- door and
This ferroutage" technique implies close co-operation between the various transport modes both at investment level and at management
level. The narrow nature of the European land area tends to oblige most of this traffic to cross at least one frontier. Therefore it is
necessary to encourage close co-operation, on the one hand between
the various railway undertakings of the Community and on the other of the various road haulage undertakings both for hire and reward and own account , including also transport agents .
The development of this technique therefore requires a dynamic investment policy at Community level, while at the same time
avoiding the simultaneous development of too many transport systems, and co-operation at management level by common actions in developing, stimulating and commercialising this kind of carriage.
The public authorities who , generally speaking , are in favour of the development of combined transport in which they can see the benefits of economy of energy and the reduction of traffic on the main
roads, could encourage this development by certain positive measures as long as t-ley avoid the creation of distortions in the conditions of competition with classical transport modes .
 -8■ 4.2 . Problems to be resolved
On the basis of information at the Commission s disposal, the normal operation of the directive still comes up against the following difficulties in particular :
4.2.1 . Authorization system for tug-units employed in terminal runs
Under the terms of Article 2 of the directive, combined carriage which comes under the criteria set out in the first article is freed from any quota or authorization system. However, Article 6 provides that national regulations concerning the conditions of admission to the profession and of access to the transport market shall not be altered . Thereby , vehicles used in combined carriage should, as in the past, be covered by national authorizations and come under national quotas insofar as such instruments are found in the national regulations of the various Member States .
In "the light of information received "by the Commission, it seems that this situation could raise problems which rr.ust be elaborated from the point of view of the subsequent system; the following two questions are concerned :
- the requirement that a tug unit belonging to a foreign company, stationed in a Member State for the purpose of effecting the terminal runs of its own semi-trailers, trailers or swop-bodies, should satisfy the national provisions of that Member State in­ sofar as quotas and authorizations are concerned;
- the fact that the terminal runs of semi-trailers, trailers or swop-bodies used in own-account carriage are considered as if they were for hire and reward subject to authorization when the tug-units do not fulfil the conditions provided for own- account carriage .
In order "thai; everything is done to stimulate comoined
rail/road transport, the Commission considers that more suitable solutions must be looked for .
Whatever the circumstances the Commission is convinced of the fact that the development of combined carriage,
boosted by all interested parties, risks being held back and possibly even blocked as long as some situations come under too bureaucratic a treatment .
 4.?.2, Tariffs and rate fixing
The fixing of attractive rates is an important element which will decide the future of combined rail/road carriage.
It is necessary to understand that the term "attractive" includes especially that the rates for carriage by rail should, on the one hand, prompt the road haulier to give up door-to-door carriage because of the greater costs involved and to choose combined carriage instead because of its less costly operation. On the other hand the rate should also be commercially acceptable to the railways.
This last condition means that the revenues from combined carriage should, in the long run, allow the railways
to cover the complete cost of this traffic. The question as to whether this is already the situation or could, in any
case, be the situation in the future, is a problem which deserves detailed study. Depending upon the results of this study, the question could be asked as to whether combined carriage by rail could be exempted from the requirement that it should be a commercial service, at least during a certain experimental period.
In the context of this report this question can only be raised and not studied in depth. Above all the reply will depend on the degree of importance to be attributed to combined rail/road carriage within the framework of a transport policy based on the public interest.
Apart from this question of transport rates the offer of a quality service, guaranteeing users both rapid and regular conveyance, is also a not unimportant factor capable of contributing towards the development of combined carriage.
4*2.3. Determination of "appropriate nearest station"
The Commission considers that it is necessary that the two criteria should be
judged separately for each transport service. They should, incidentally, be put forward in a cumulative way, in the sense that the "nearest" station from the point of view of the distance is not appropriate when, as much from the technical as from the commercial angle, it is not considered for optimum operation of such carriage.
Consequently, the Commission believes that it would be appropriate to prove flexibility in implementing this concept or to improve the present text of the directive in order to take adequate account of the practical transport requirements.
The development of combined transport also depends on the possibilities for creating and modernising the rail/road trans- shipment centres. These centres should be well chosen in such a
way as to allow the establishment at Community level of a network
of complete trains which, by the ease of circulation they offer and the lowering of costs which result cannot fail to encourage combined
The financial implications of the localisation of these transshipment centres can be very important. The multi-modal nature
of these centres in fact requires that they should be surrounded by sufficient and fluid road routes .
In this sector, financial action by the States and by the Community could be necessary in the form of subsidies fixed at a rate based on a proportion of the corresponding infrastructure costs and on the necessary equipment for the road share of the technique.
Such actions should be planned together and carried out within the framework of an overall plan with an integrated view not only for "ferroutage" but also for the gantry cranes at the "trans- container" yards which could be common user on condition that payment is made for their use .
Investments in rail rolling stock are usually made by the concerned . In France , nevertheless , it is the " Societe
d'Equipement des Grands Itineraires " ( SEGI ) which buys the necessary special wagons. When this company was set up banks and builders of rolling stock provided capital and are therefore concerned in the development of combined transport.
The SEGI draws up its orders on the basis of the needs expressed by NOVATRANS and hires out all its vehicle stock to that company for a length of time equivalent to the usual use and amortisation period of the wagons.
In order to ensure the optimum adaptation of the vehicle stock to the needs at Community level one wonders whether it might not be worthwhile creating an international company on the lines "of the SEGI company .
This company could progressively encourage greater uniformity of the too great diversity of "ferroutage" techniques which leads to poor profitability of the investments.
In fact the multiplicity of techniques both on the railways sice with the different types of wagon and on the road s^de with the variety of semi-trailers or again the diversity of handling metliods lead to a wastane
of resources , especially at the international level .
In conclusion it would be desirable for the hauliers concerned to work together towards defining uniform equipment .
An investigation into the possibilities of improving the organisation of combined transport is mainly the responsibility of the undertakings themselves .
4.Z.6..1 . As far as railways are concerned the Commission has the impression , confirmed moreover by the experts , that an action based on more confidence and on a better understanding of the common interest will usefully contribute towards a development of this interesting traffic .
The Commission has no criticisms to offer on any particular points. However it has highlighted a point which is
capable of being improved. It concerns its proposal aiming at mutual communication of the specific costs of carriage by complete trains in which some railway undertakings participate ( 1 ).
The idea behind this suggestion, i.e. greater co-operation between the railway undertakings, could be developed further than
the aspect of costs alone .
4.2.6.2. As far as road hauliers and forwarding agents are concerned the creation of specialized companies for combined carr-'age has led to the solution of many organizational problems, and
without doubt the most important ones. • During consultation between the Commission's services and the relevant sectors the question
was asked as to whether an appeal would be useful when the
opportunity offers , to the services of the " Bureau de rapprochement des entrepri ses" ( set up in the Commission ) in order to find a solution to the present or future problems concerning combined carriage .
The Commission would merely put forward this idea. In cases where the governments also consider that this idea is worth taking into consideration there is nothing to stop this question being studied more deeply .
Nevertheless , in the Commission 's view , problems of organization should be settled first of all by the undertakings themselves. This holds for the size of combined carriage under­ takings, the breadth of their field of activity, their commercial activities as well as "last but not least" their competitive policy (including the fairly delicate question of their behaviour vis a vis the companies for the transport of containers which are suosidiaries of the railway companies ).
Article 6 of the proposed Council ( EEC) regulation concerning the fixing of uniform principles for the calculation of the cost : of railway undertakings <CJ N° C 155/10 of 2 July 1977)
4*2.6.3. On the same lines it is worth mentioning also that the share of own account transport in combined carriage does not seem to have been
settled everywhere in a satisfactory way. Whatever the circumstances the own-account representatives complain of the fact that in some Member States their direct admission to combined carriage work is made difficult
by exaggerated conditions in the sectors of fixing of rates and of organis­ ation , especially by making them work through transport agents .
On the one hand one cainot criticise the railway undertakings for selling their combined carriage services at a greater cost to a single firm using combined carriage on own account than to major customers such as specialised combined carriage companies. These latter advance the argument that they
are responsible primarily for looking after the interests of their members. But, on the other hand, it does not seem justified to require the services
of a transport agent every time.
A solution could be found in fixing a rate which is economically justified and which does not allow any discrimination for own-account transport.
In addition the greater the share of these latter in combined carriage
the greater the need to call upon the specialised combined carriage com­ panies , which will also provide them with economic advantages .
5-1 • The list of problems above is no doubt non-exhaustive . The Commission can only highlight those situations of which it has been in­ formed by the relevant economic sectors. It is not out of the question that the discussion of this report will reveal ether features to be in­ cluded or the need to make some corrections.
Nevertheless it is worthwhile again drawing attention to the fact that the Commission , in accordance with its terms of reference , has refrained from submitting concrete proposals on the combined trans­ port .
5.2 . The Commission , in accordance with sub-paragraph 2 of Article 7 of the directive , covered by this report , will submit a proposal during 1978 on the measures to be implemented in order to encourage the develop­
ment of "ferroutage" which will replace the system set up under the present directive after 31 Deoember 1978*
 Points of view expressed by the carriers and the users interested in combined carriage
Railways' point of view
The railway undertakings made the observation that the liberalisat- ion of combined carriage has had a positive influence on the behaviour
of some road transport undertakings which have adapted their investment plans to the possibilities of combined carriage.
On the other hand, they consider that the effect of this freedom could have been more favourable if the quotas for "pure" road transport, where they exist, had been stabilised or reduced. The railways state that there has been rather more a tendency towards increasing the quotas and that the greater freedom resulting from the directive has led to increased competition .
The railway undertakings are in favour of measures which would tend to develop combined carriage more, even if this were combined with a revenue which was inferior to that obtained from other traffic. But they demand, in return, that this traffic should be deducted from road haulage and not from railway traffic which is carried out by other more profitable rail techniques.
It is for this reason that they are in favour of an adjustment of the road transport quotas based on the activity recorded for combined carriage following its possible development. In this report the whole range of "pure road" transport activity and "combined transport" should be considered as road activities .
The railways do not, through these demands, wish to interfere in the commercial management of the road hauliers.
Point of view of the hire and reward road hauliers
The professional carriers of freight by road consider, on the other hand, that the directive is capable of distorting the conditions of com­ petition between the combined carriage technique and that of the classical carriage of freight by road. This influence would be especially strength­ ened if the directive and its objectives were used as a pretext for re­ fusing necessary alterations of the authorisation system for access to
the market in the road goods transport market.
In addition the road hauliers fear that the railways could cancel the combined carriage services or discourage their development by alter­ ing the tariffs or by refusing to improve the organisation of the ser­ vices. Such action could affect their independence.
 Despite these reservations hire and reward road hauliers are in favour of an extension of the directive on condition, however, that no connection is established "between the regulation and contract of combined carriage and that of road goods transport capacity, and that in this regard the promotion of combined carriage stays neutral.
3. Point of view of own-account road hauliers and users
The point of view of the own-account haulier is more or less the same. This transport sector is also opposed to the idea that combined carriage
should be used as an instrument "against" road haulage and "in favour"
of the railways. It underlines especially the need to leave the commercial management of combined carriage to the road transport undertakings.
This opinion is in accordance with the theme of the transport users which is also against any "artificial" co-ordination between railway and
road and which considers that it would be as well , first of all , to leave the decision in the matter of future development of combined carriage to the market situation .
4. Point of view of the commercial combined transport companies
The member companies of U.I.R.R. (Union Internationale des trans­ ports combines rail/route) are in general positive as regards the directive. In particular they point out the reduction in the administrat­ ive structure and the removal of certain disadvantages such as the delays caused by the loss of authorisations, the time required for obtaining them and the refusal of loads because of unrenewed authorisations. In
general these undertakings noted a greater flexibility in operations. In any case they are in favour of maintaining the present system even if only because of the brief length of the experimental period since 1 October 1975•
 Development of rail/road traffic Major international traffio links Wagons used for combined carriage
Main depots (terminals) for coinbined carriage
Development of rail/road combined oarriage since 1971
in semi-trailers (including vehicle combinations) and swop bodies of 12m and 2 * 7m
- (indices calculated in relation to 1971) Tonnage in 1000 tonnes
i National 54 1.076 100 59 1.150 107 64 1.254 117 72 1.366 127 62 1.108 103 67 1.186 110 ! International 16 327 100 18 393 120 22 482 147 24 514 157 18 380 116 23 500 153
National 33 32 34 28 29 28 International 0.5 1.200 100 3 1.650 138 6 2.100 175 6 2.200 183 8 2.200 183 13 2.500i1)
s) eetimated figure
N° Companies Traffic Link Departure Eay /Time
II It Rotterdam–Maimheim return
Cologne–Mailand return
Neuss–( see Cologne) Mannheim (see Cologne)
Tug-units and lorries
Semi-trailers "pocket" Swop Total wagons Bodies
Wagon fleet used for combined carriage
Specialised wagons for :
of which 45 international
Table 4 Main depots (terminals) for combined rail/road carriage
Development of rail/road combined carriage since 1971 Table 1
in semi-trailers (including vehicle combinations) ana swop bodies of 12m and 2 x 7m (indices calculated in relation to 1971)
Number in 1000 units Tonnage in 1000 "tonnes
9-12 it n 13 ti h
23 it ti Oharleroi
Paris-Bologna reirum
6o-68 it it 69-71 11 ti
Neuss-(see Cologne ) Mannheim ( see Cologne )
Cologne–llailand return
Tug-units and lorries
Semi-trailers "pocket" Swop Total wagons Bodies
Wagon fleet used for eorabined earriage Specialised wagons for :
of which 45 international
Table 4 Main depots (terminals) for combined rail/road carriage
