The purpose of this Regulation is to fix for the 1977/78 wine-growing year and pursuant to the provisions of Article 24 (6) of Regulation (EEC) N° 816/70 the purchase price ofvLnic. deliveries and the price of alcohol obtained from vinic deliveries under the obligation to distil the "by-pro­ ducts of wine-making, and to determine the maximum share of the cost to be borne by the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund, Guarantee Section.
The proposal must take account of the latest amendments to Regulation (EEC) IT0 8I6/7O and the regulation on the distillation of the by-products of
wine-making. The latter regulation mainly provides for a limit on the purchase price of vinic deliveries and technical factors for determining the price of the alcohol from vinic deliveries.
 Draft proposal of COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No
determining for the 197j/7f wine-growing year the prices to be paid under the
compulsory distillation of the by-products of wine-making and the maximum
amount of tlje contribution from the Guarantee Section of the European Agri­ cultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 816/70 of 28 April 1970 laying down additional provi­ sions for the common organization of the market in wine(' ), as last - amended by Regulation (EEC) No 52R/77 (2), and in particular Article 24 (6) thereof,
Having- regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas, in accordance with Article 24 of Regulation
(EEC) No 816/70 and Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Council
Regulation (EEC) No 1930/76 of 20 July 1976 on the
distillation of the by-products of wine making (}), the
Council fixes for each wine-growing year the
buying-in price for wine deliveries and the price for
the alcohol from wine deliveries under the compul­
sory distillation of the by-products of wine-making and determines the maximum amount of the costs of
the intervention agencies to be financed by the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guid­ ance and Guarantee Fund ;
Whereas the buying-in price for wine deliveries should be fixed'taking into account the quantities available and the prices of table wines on the various Community markets ; whereas the application of this criterion results in the buying-in price being fixed at a level corresponding to the lower limit laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EEC) No 1930/76 ; whereas, however, in order to avoid administrative difficulties in applying this price, the number of decimals should be limited to two ;
Whereas when the price of the alcohol from wine deliveries is fixed, the criteria referred, to in Article 3
(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1930/76 should be applied on a standard basis ; whereas it should be specified that this price should apply to rectified alcohol ;
Whereas the maximum amount of the contribution
from the Guarantee Section of the European Agricul­ tural Guidance and Guarantee Fund should be fixed
in the light of the situation on the market in alcohol,
1. The prices for the 1977/71 wine-growing year shall be as follows : '
– 0-Sj u.a./°/hl for the buying-in price for wine deliveries,
– 0- 91 u.a./°/hl for the price of the alcohol from wine deliveries of marc,
– 0-91 u.a./°/hl for the price of the alcohol from wine deliveries of lees,
– 0- 91 u.a./°/hl for the price of the alcohol from wine deliveries of wine.
The price of the alcohol from wine deliveries shall apply to rectified alcohol.
2. The maximum amount of the contribution from
the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund for the above wine-
growing year shall be 0-23 unit of account per hi/degree of alcohol.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 September 1977 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council
The President
1. BUDGET LINK CONCETCJED 1 692 ( other wine expenditure )
2. ACTION :Proposal for a Council Regulation determining for the 1977/78 wine year the prices to "be paid for the purposes of the compulsory distillation of the "by-product of viine making and the maximum amount of EAGGF intervention.
OBJECTIVESI Determiningthepricestohepaidforthepurposesofthecompulsory Y distillation of the l3y-proudcts of wine making. Fixing the maximum amount of EAGGF R
measure limited to the 1977/78 wine year
determining for the 1977/78 wine-growing year the prices to "be
paid under the compulsory distillation of the by-products of' wine-making and the maximum amount of the contribution from the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and
Guarantee Fund I.
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
The purpose of this Regulation is to fix for the 1977/78 wine-growing year and pursuant to the provisions of Article 24 (6) of Regulation (EEC) N® 816/70 the purchase price ofvinic deliveries and the price of alcohol obtained from vinio deliveries tinder the obligation to distil the by-pro­ ducts of wine-making, and to determine the maximum share of the cost to be borne by the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund, Guarantee
The proposal must take account of the latest amendments to Regulation (EEC) F° 8I6/7O and the regulation on the distillation of the by-products of
wine-making. The latter regulation mainly provides for a limit on the purchase prioe of vinio deliveries and technical factors for determining the price of the aloohol from vinio deliveries.
 . proposal of COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
determining for the 1977/7j wine-growing year the prices to be paid under the
compulsory distillation of the by-products of wine-making and the maximum
amount of tlje contribution from the Guarantee Section of the European Agri­ cultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 816/70 of 28 April 1970 laying down additional provi­ sions for the common organization of the market in wine (' ), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 524/77 (2), and in particular Article 24 (6) thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas, in accordance with Article 24 of Regulation
(EEC) No 816/70 and Articles 2, 3 and 4 of Council
Regulation (EEC) No 1930/76 of 20 July 1976 on the
distillation of the by-products of wine making (J), the
Council fixes for each wine-growing year the
buying-in price for wine deliveries and the price for
the alcohol from wine deliveries under the compul­
sory distillation of the by-products of wine-making and determines the maximum amount of the costs of
the intervention agencies to be financed by the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guid­ ance and Guarantee Fund ;
Whereas the buying-in price for wine deliveries should be fixed 'taking into account the quantities available and the prices of table wines on the various Community markets ; whereas the application of this' criterion results in the buying-in price being fixed at a level corresponding to the lower limit laid down in Article 2 of Regulation (EEC) No 1930/76 ; whereas, however, in order to avoid administrative difficulties in applying this price, the number of decimals should be limited to two ;
Whereas when the price of the alcohol from wine deliveries is fixed, the criteria referred to in Article 3
(2) of Regulation (EEC) No 1930/76 should be applied on a standard basis ; whereas it should be specified that this price should apply to rectified alcohol ;
Whereas the maximum amount of the contribution
from the Guarantee Section of the European Agricul­ tural Guidance and Guarantee Fund should be fixed
in the light of the situation on the market in alcohol,
1. The prices for the 1977/78 wine>growing year shall be as follows :
0.57 unit of account per hectolitre/degree of alcohol for the buying-in price for vine deliveries ,
– 0.91 unit of account per hectolitre/degree of alcohol .for the price of the alcohol froa wine deliveries of Bare,
– 0.91 unit of account per hectolitre/degree of alcohol for the price of the alcohol froa wine deliveries of lees,
–• 0.91 unit of account, per hectolitre/degree of alcohol for the price of the alcohol froa wine deliveries of wine.
The price of the alcohol froa wine deliveries shall : apply to rectified alcohol .
2. The aaxiaua aaount of the contribution froa
the Guarantee Section of the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund for the above wine-
growing year shall be 0.23 unit of account per hectolitre/degree of alcohol.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 Septeaber 1977.
This Regulation shall be binding In Its entirety and directly applicable in all Heaber States.
For the found1 The President
1, BUDGET LINS CONCERNED t 692 (other wine expenditure)
2. ACTION «Proposal for a Council Regulation determining for the 1977/7& wine year thcj prices to "be paid for "the purposes of the compulsory distillation of the hy-producl 3 of wine making and the maximum amount of EAGGF intervention.
«COBJECTIVES« Determiningthepricestohepaidforthepurposesofthecompulsory distillation of the by-proudcts of wine making. Fixing the maximum amount of EAGGF
measure limited to the 1977/78 wine year
