Amendment to the Proposal for a
Council Directive to protect the consumer in respect of contracts which have been negotiated away from "business
(Presented "by the Commission to the Council pursuant to Article 149 para. 2 of the EEC Treaty)
COM(78) 2 final Brussels , 12 January 1978
Amended text
This Direct:ve shall apply to con­ tracts between a consumer and a
Irader, and unilateral engagements
by a consumer towards a trader, negotiations for which have been
initiated away from business pren*- iseo. ouch contracts and
cents are heremaf tsr referred to as "doorstep contracts*'.
i'or tfce purpose of this Dii-ective t oonGumorM means a natural person
who Jji transactions covered by this Directive acts otherwise than in a coBijmsrcial or professional o&p&c j ty ;
"trader1* jseans a natural or leg*.1 Person who in the exercise of a commercial or professional activ­ ity concludes contracts with consumers !
- "business premises" mean the perm­ anent place of business at which a t riv.dez* exercises his corjnercial or
profession^.! activity as well as 5-t,,*illg at fairs and scarkeia.
trader" means a natural or legal person who in the exercise of a
commercial or professional activity concludes contracts with consumers or anyone acting on behalf of nm'h
Amendment to the Proposal for a
Cv'Ujicil. Dix*0otive to protect xh0 ocnoUtnc'r1 ro^nect contracts which hav-- "been negoii^iod i row business
(Presented by the Commission to the Council pursuant to
Article 149 para , 2 of the EEC Original text
 IM 3 D.ir»ctive shall not ap;oly to :
contracts wMoh have "fcsen negotiated exclusively at the initi&tivs of the consumer ;
for the purpose of this paragraph
the ordering of catalogues , patterns , samples and similar items , a request
by the consumer for a visit or dem­ onstration , and participation in an event organized "by the trader shall not be considered as ir.itiating negotiations ;
fc) contracts which have teen negotiated solely in writing;
o) contracts which are concluded before a court , notary or other person who is under duty to inform both con­ tracting parties of their rights and obligations ;
d) contracts relating to immovable property or any rights thereto;
e) contracts under which the price pay- able by the consumer does not exceed twenty-five European units of account. European unit of account means the unit of account as defined by Commie- sion Decision 3289/75/SCSC of 18 December 1975*
The conversion value in national currency to be adopted shall, as from
31 December of each year, be that of the last day of the preceding month
of October for which European unit of account conversion values are avail­
able in all the Community ourrenoiest
e) contracts under which the price payable by the consumer does not exceed fifteen European units of account. European unit of account means the unit of account as defined by Commission Decision .
3289/75/ECSC of December 18, 1975* The conversion value in national
currency to be adopted shall, as from 31 December of each year, be that of the last day of the preced­ ing month of September for which European unit of account conversion values are available in all the Community currenoies;
 The Council shall, on a proposal from the Commission, examine every three years and, if necessary, re­
vise the amount specified in Euro­ pean units of account in this para­ graph, having regard to economic and monetary movement in the Commu­ nity *
The consumer must sign the door­ step contract in his own hand.
A copy of the doorstep contract must be given to the consumer on the signing thereof or forwarded to him immediately thereafter#
fpt for any payment of a deposit uirod under national law, the trar-
shall be forbidden to require the suroer before expiration of the
iod mentioned in Article 6 :
to make full or partial payment of the contract price or to provide any other kind of payment or any surety; or
to sign a bill of exchange , cheque or other kind of negotiable instru–
nent or, for the trader, to take *uch a document .
The Council shall, on a proposal from the Commission, examine every three years and, if necessary, re­ vise the amount specified in Euro­ pean units of account in this para­ graph, having regard to economic
and monetary movement in the Coeudu– nity .
f) foodotuffs and drinks delivered "by regular roundsmen
2. A copy of the doorstep contract must be given to the consumer on the signing thereof (deletion of ten words).
Except for any payaient of a deposit required under national law,
a) the trader shall be forbidden to
require or accept from the consumer, before expiration of the period mentioned in Article 6, full or partial payment of the contract price or any other kind of payment or any surety;
b) the trader nhall be forbidden to require the conr.uir.er before the expiration of the period mentioned in Article 6 to sign a bill of ex­ change, cheque or any other kind of negotiable instrument, or to
Contractuel provisions which :
a) require the consumer to pay some
form of compensation if he exer­ cises his right of cancellation? or
>■) provide that a court other than , that normally competent to hear
such a case shall have jurisdic­ tion
shall be void.
Contractual provisions which require
the consumer to pay some form of com­
pensation if he exercises his right of cancellation shall be void.
