In its Memorandum on the renewal of the Lome Convention, the Commission decided to study the possibility of establishing "a link between the advantages offered by the Community (particularly in the commercial field) and the obser­ vance of certain basic international standards gov erning working conditions", lil order to "obviate for the Community any risk of supporting, in non-member countries, industrial development in specific cases where such development takes place under abnormal working conditions".
The draft communication annexed hereto constitutes a proposal for the application of this principle.
The objectives of the Community's development cooperation policy must be to pro­ mote social progress in the developing countries as much as economic growth.
It is therefore important for the Community to ensure that these two objectives Arc pursued simultaneously in the implementation and application of its development cooperation policy, especially as economio progress of the people concerned, is tied to social conditions.
Given the difficult economic and social circumstances in which the countries
of the Community find themselves, it is more important than ever, and at the same time more difficult, to convince public opinion in the Community that a cooperation policy is justified. In the field of trade cooperation in particular, the protectionist pressures that are threatening to hamper the industrialization of the developing countries must be resisted.
The establisment of a link between the advantages offered by the Community and the observance of minimum labour standards accomodates these points of concern; – it helps to guarantee equality of opportunity among the developing countries
in the matter of access to the Community market by ensuring that those that apply the international labour conventions are not penalized;
– it is designed to promote the social objectives of development.
The standards adopted in the basic text can "be considered to represent a minimum. Certain business and labour circles in the Community woi£Ld like the Community to go further in this direction by considering other basic standards covering working conditions, notably those relating to the fixing of a minimum wage, trade-union freedom and negotiating rights.
It is reasonable to think, however, that by giving priority to the observance of standards which directly affect people (age, non-discrimination, working hours) the Community's action will have significant political scope and will thus acc elerate a trend that is already apparent. The reference to the ILO conventions and the cooperation requested of the International Labour Office cill also help towards this end. It is true that none of the conventions to
which the "standards adopted refer, has yet been ratified by all ILO member states, but their ratification is not a decisive factor : after adoption by the annual conferences of the ILO they are applicable in all countries and constitute the basis for normal actions and for the ILO's technical assistance,
which have produced remarkable results both in the industrialised countries arcLinthedevelopingcountries, eventhepoorest
Furthermore, the Director General and the Department of Standards of the International Labour office have welcomed the Commission's intentions in this
field and have actively cooperated in drawing up the minimum standard adopted. ROLE OF THE INTERNATIONAL LABOUR OFFICE
The application of the arrangements for implementing the principles contained in this communication requires the cooperation of the International Labour Office. The Director General of the International Labour Office has been asked
unofficially if he finds the type of co-operation envisaged acceptable to him. Subject to certain minor changes which have been incorporated in the text of the draft communication, the Director General has expressed his agreement
and his willingness to put at the Community's dispositions the whole of the International Labour Force's experience and equipment in order to help control the effective application of these standards , subject to prior agreement by
(l) cf. "International work standards", ILO, 197°
 the International Labour Force's administering Council ,·
Although the International Labour Office's control over the application of the OIL'S international conventions generally take the form of moral condanmation where there are breaches, it should be noted that in certain cases e.g.Grece
in the time of the Colonels, Spain in Franco's time and Chili since 1973. the administering Council has decided to apply real sanctions in various ways : withdrawal of its technical assistance, refusal of jointly financed International LabourOffice/lINDPprojectsandclusureofitsliaisonoffice. Furthermore
a resolution adopted by the ILO conference in 1977" *
The concrete effects of controling the application of standards adopted by
the Sommunity would not therefore involve a new departure for the administering
Council of the International Labour Office
While it is for the International Labour Office to judge whether the standards adopted in the basic text are being applied, responsability for the application
of the arrangements lies with the Community, acting on a proposal from the Commission.
(l) There are two precedents in this field : the agreement expressed by the
- ; Administering Council of the International Labour Office for controlling the
application of the "International pact in respect of economic, social
and cultural rights" as asked for by the U.N, (ECOSSOO) and the "European . social security code" asked for by the European Council.
•(•2) Thisorganisationhas,forsomeyears,beenconcernedwiththedefinition of equitable standards of work in the context of international trade : the International Labour Office devoted a detailed study to this subjeci between 1971 and 1973 – following an intervention from President Senghor – and the Director General has already dealt with it in his report at the 58 th session of the ILO Conference (1973.
 The Commission must continue to determine the importance of the complaints and infringements notified to it before requesting the International Labour Officetocarryoutacheck. Evenifnon-observanceoftheminimumlabour standards were confirmed by the International Labour Office, the Community would still be judge as to wether it was appropriate to put the arrangements into operation.
On the other hand, if the International Labour Office were unable to make a pronouncement in certain cases owing to insufficient information as to whether or not, the standards adopted were being applied, this would prevent thfe Community from taking any action.
The Community will have to comply with two preoccupations when applying the principle :
a) that of maintaining a fair balance between the aims pursued and the reper­ cussionsfopthecountriesconcerned. Withtheactivecollaborationofthe International Labour Office, the particular circumstances of the least developed countries will have to be taken into account and could sometimes result in delaying the effective application of the conventions which
they have ratified
b) that of avoiding the impression that the proposed arrangements are inspired byprotectionism. ThisisonereasonwhytheCommissionproposesthatits preferential advantages in the frameword of its cooperation and development policy should be dependent upon compliance with the minimum standards adopted, although this would not apply to access to the Community market of products coming from developing countries. It must be made absolutely clear that
in carrying out the Commission's proposition, the Community's aim will be to help countries benefitting from its cooperation to base their economic growth on conditions which are compatible with social progress.
(l) Among the countries which the Commission of the ILO placed on its "Special list" in 1977 because of serious failures in their obligations, the follo­ wing poor countries have since complied with the rules (see annex IV) and are no longer on the list in 1978 s Upper-Volta, Mauritania, Central African
 Because of its objectives the Commission^ proposition is far from "being part of a protectionist trends. It will in fact strengthen the bonds between
an' open development and cooperation policy and the Community's economic and social strength.
The Commission could thus embark on a course that would mark an important stage in the implementation of its cooperation policy, and one that would
give the Community an opportunity of taking an initiative which could leave its imprint on North-South relations following consultations in the interna­ tional forums at the appropriate time, and one which would allow a closer asso­ ciation between the economic and social strength of the Community and progress
in "the developing industrialisation" of the third world.
(l) It must also be stressed that, at present, the Community is not alone
in seeking a solution which goes beyond the declarations of interest andpurelymoralpressures. Severalindustrialisedcountriesareknown
to be using preferences for other ends and the USA, in particular, is studying how, on the basis of the Trade Act and other new elements, it could relate the granting of preferential advantages , notably within the framework
of the GSP, to the respect of certain human rights in the economic and social fields .
 In its Memorandum (C0MC78) 47 final of 16 February 1978) on the renewal of the
Lome Convention, the Commission indicated in Chapter II.C.3. "Considerations
relating to working conditions" why and how it is contemplating the establish­
ment of a "link between the advantages offered by the Community (particularly
in the commercial field) and the observance of certain basic international stan­
dards governing working conditions", this linkage apllying to all the developing countries, including the ACP States.
The policy guidelines proposed in this Communication reflect this concern and
the implementing arrangements devoted as far as possible with the procedures that already exist or are envisaged in the context of the renewal of the Lome Conven­ tion, Moreover,, the active^participation of the ILO will be needed to implement
The aim of this communication is :
- firstly, to propose the choice of a certain number of minimum labour standards which are essential and which are to be found in the totatity of standards co­ vered by the 151 conventions of the ILO ;
- secondly, to spell out the scope of the envisaged arrangements in the context of financial and technical cooperation and in that of trade cooperation ;
- thirdly, to define the procedures for implementation with the countries with which the Community is linked by cooperation agreements of a preferential nature and with other countries which receive trade preferences and/or techni­ cal and financial assistance ;
- fourthly, to affirm the principle of cooperation between the EEC and the ILO in the implementation of the proposed arrangements.
 The choice of standards
The first task of- the Commission-was the*efore?to> choose* frowamong the vast
body of standards cbvered by the 151 ILO convention^/ the irinimuin labour standards considered* as bein§ the most fandamentat and? to group then together in a text that?'could serve as; a ba&ts for Community actioru Thefbasic textf which forms Annex I/Tis'a self-contained whole with precise definitions/ which though deri­ ved' fcHrectiy from the *ILO instruments, reproduces only their essential features enitk takes* account of the States of legislation and tbe dei^act© situation in a large number of developing countries. It takes four labour standards that
are considered fundamental/ these being proceded by a statement of general prin­ ciples (see Annex II for the legal references to the corresponding conven­
Where the conventions provided for flexibility clauses in the case of the developing countries/ allowance has been made for this.
Artifcle 1 ( General Principles ) is a general statement of intent concerning the implementation of the text as a whole.
 Ajrticle 2. ( Equality of Opportunity and , Treatment ) In employment and of profes- "■; (;■.?'£ r. ... ,'i\i.' : 1., V ! : '■Ci ' v..
slon) will apply in each, State to that State's nationals and is designed to prevent
any de jure, or de facto discrimination between, the various categdries of the na-
Article 3 (Working Hours) relates to a fundamental standard, which is how­ ^ ^^ever accompanied by a flexibility clause, establishing a limit on the dura­ tion of the working week. It corresponds to the de jure or de facto situa­
tion in most countries , even where , for various reasons , they have not rati­ fied the corresponding ILO Convention, which dates back to 1919.
Article 4 ( Employment of Children and Adolescents ) follows the provisions of the convention in question which were established specifically for the deve­ loping countries (**). It also corresponds moreover to the legislation adop­ ted by a large number of developing countries pursuant to Convention No 5 on the minimum age in industry .
Article 4b is designed to look after the health and safety of children and adolescents and takes over standards established by three successive ILO conventions .
It would have been possible to adopt as a basis the relevant ILO conventions themselves. However, since the number of ratifications of these conventions by the ILO Member States varies considerably according to their content and date, it became apparent that it would be very difficult to evolve a satis­ factory uniform system to monitor the actual application of the standards and the overall context of the relevant conventions.
The formula adopted makes it possible to draw up a Community basic text which refers directly to the ILO international conventions governing certain mini­ mum working conditions . (***)
(**) Artisanals firms are not covered by the convention in question ; it expressly excludes agricultural, family or small firms whose production is intended for the local market and which do not regularly employ paid workers.
C *) The expression "national origin refers to those that have acquired the status of national by naturalization.
Scope of the arrangements
The Community's development cooperation policy is not aimed solely at the economic development of the countries receiving aid but also at their so­
cial progress . Accordingly , the preamble of the Lome Convention expressly links the two terms (**).
It is therefore only right that the Community should want to attach to the aid tommercial, financial and technical assitance that it gives certain conditions designed to promote the social ends of development.
Obviously, the Community must not sit in judgment and at the same time be
one of the partners concerned. Since this text derives directly from the corpus of fILO conventions and other international instruments whose application is1 moni­ tored by the ILO, the Community could request that organisation to use (*) its owni nbfiitoring procedures and machinery for the application of conventions, irrespective of whether certain countries have or have not ratified the ILO conventions in their entirely (see Annex IV, page 1, last paragraph).
This formula also makes it possible to deal with the case of those deve­ loping countries that are not, or are not yet, members of the ILO ; there are very few of them, but they must be taken into account.
Although it is not formally necessary to take this aspect of the problem into consideration, an axxed'table shares the situation regarding the ra­
tification of the international conventions and instruments on which the
text is based , : by the EEC States , the ACP States and the other deve­ countries ( see Annex III ).
( *) Subject to the prior agreement of the Governing Body of the International Labour Office (see Section IV).
(**)"Resolved to intensify their efforts together for the economic development and social progress of the ACP States".
 - The principle will be applied in the execution of the projects and programmes financed by the Community institutions .
- Application of this principle to trade cooperation will have the effect "of establishing a link between the trade preferences granted by the Community to certain developing countries, together with the preferential trade arrangements written into the associa­ tion agreements, and the beneficiars countries' observance of the minimum labour stan­ dards (set out in the basic text which forms Annex I). It is advisable to limit care­ fully the link thus established only to the preferential aspects of the Community's commercial policy, not to include access to the Community market itself, since the measure as proposed, does not have a protectionist character. It is rather a question
of strengthening the accession of economic social forces of the Community to an open policy of Development cooperation, while at the same time reserving preferences for the many countries who are trying to base their economic growth on conditions which are compatible with social progress. Nor, should exceptions be made for the few cases where under-development is involved to justify inhuman working conditions.
This principle will have to be implemented by the Community :
- on a contractual basis under the preferential cooperation agreements ;
- on the initiative of the Community, in the application of its generalised preferences scheme.This could be done on the occasion of the review scheduled for 1980, after information in the appropriate international forums (UNCTAD, GATT, OECD), on the se­ lection of norms which the Community consider fundamental to the method of applica­ tion .
In any event, these measures can not be implemented by the Community in the framework
of the generalised preferences scheme - the Commission has indicated in its first commu­ nication on the Renewal of the Lome Convention - until they apply to Community relations with all of the countries concerned .
Implementing procedures and arrangements a) In trade
The principles and scope of the arrangements for implementing the minimum •standards in the basic text will be the same for all developing countries
but the procedures will differ according to the context in which the Commu­ nity has to act - unilateral (GSP) or contractual (Lome Convention or Medi­ terranean agreements).
. The Commission, acting on into own initiative or at the request of a Member State, on being informed of an infringement of the standards adopted - own on-the-spot information resources - shall ask the International Labour
Office without prejudice to the uese of the Commission's to verify this infor­ mation (see Annex IV on the ILO's procedures and practice).
. Where appropriate, the Commission, with the approval of the Council, would propose to initiate consultations with the developing country or countries concerned to find a solution acceptable to the parties concerned.
. Failure to reach a solution, persistent non-compliance with the minimum standards and any injury suffered by the Community Member States might oblige the Community to take the necessary measures.
In the case of countries with which the Community has concluded preferential cooperation agreements, these measures will be taken pursuant to the safeguard clauses written into the agreements, the said clauses possibly being expanded for this purpose. Where the injury is due essentially to non-compliance with the minimum standards adopted, it is understood at Community level that these
measures cannot go beyond the temporary withdrawal of the exemption from customs duties and charges having equivalent effect accorded by the cooperation agree­ ments under the heading of trade cooperation (*) Naturaaly, at the outset the Community will clarify precisely for those countries concerned what range of norms it considers as fundamental, the violation of which, by virtue of damages sustained may lead to the invoking of safeguard clauses.
(*) Where appropriate, such withdrawal could be confirmed to one or more products or one or more sectors of production if it were apparent that the non-compliance with the minimum standards involved only certain products or sectors.
Cooperation procedure between the EEC and the ILO
After establishing the basic text setting out the minimum standards which it considers to be fundamental, the Community would have to seek with the help of the International Labour Office ways of checking that the standards laid do',:i in the basic text are effectively applied.
TheCommissionrequeststheCounciltoapprovetheseguidelines. Atthe appropriate time, it will put forward proposals for their technical imple­ mentation, both in the context of the renewal of the Lome Convention and in
the other areas of application of the Community's development cooperation policy.
In the GSP context, the Community will examine each year, when it prepa­ res its proposals for the coming year's scheme, whether any developing country should be removed from the list of GSP beneficiaries on account of non-compliance with the minimum standards (*).
The Community institutions (Commission and EIB) will see to it that pro­ per account is taken of this social aspects (**), notably of compliance with the minimum labour standards, in the execution of projects and pro­ g rammes .
( *) Where appropriate, such withdrawal could be confirmed to one or more products or one or more sectors of production if it were apparent that the non-compliance with the minimum standards involved only certain products or sectors.
(**) Article 53 (1) of the Lome Convention :
1. The Community shall appraise projects and programmes in close collaboration with the ACP States and any other beneficiaries. The technical, social,
economic, trade, financial, organizational and management aspects of such projects or programmes shall be reviewed systematically".
States will pursue policies designed to promote equality of opportunity and treatment in the matter of employment and occupation so that all discrimination
based on race, colour, sex, Religion, national origin or social origin is eliminated WORKINC HOURS
States will take measures to ensure that a limit is set to the number of hours worked ; this should not exceed 48 hours per week, except in the case of the necessary derogations , a full list of which should be established .
The States will take action using the full resources available to them - both by their own efforts and via international assistance and cooperation, particu­
larly economic and technical - to secure the implementation of the principles established in this text by all appropriate means, including in particular the adoption of legislative measures.
a) States will adopt legislative measures and practical arrangements to secure the effective abolition of child labour and to establish 14 years as the mini­ mum age for taking up employment or work.
These measures do not affect craft, agricultural or domestic activities; nor
do they affect small scale enterprises with a local market who do not employ sala­ ried workers on a regular basis.
b) In addition to the minimum age for taking up employment in general, legislation must fix the age below which children and adolescents must not be employed or engaged in dangerous or insalubrious work or be employed or work at night.
All - the articles making up the basic text have their legal source either in the ILO Conventions that have entered into force - i.e. after the minimum number of ratifications by the Member States has been reached - or in the United Nations International Covenant on Economic , Social and Cultural Rights ( 1976) ( the In­ ternational Labour Office was instructed by ECOSOC to help monitor the implementa­ tion of the Covenant), or lastly in the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises ans Social Policy ( 1977), which was- unani­ mously adopted by the Governing Body of the International Labour Office.
More specif i'cal ly , STANDARDS ), refer
articles making up the basic text ( Annex I : MINIMUM LABOUR
to the Covenant, Article 2 I)
to' Convention No III, Artide 1 a), and
to the Declaration on Multinational Enterprises ,
to Convention No I, and
to the Covenant, Artide 7 d)
: . to Convention No 5, and
: to Convention No 79
to Convention No 90, Artide 3 I) and to Convention No 138, Artide 3 I).
(*) Article 2, para. 4 of Convention No 138 contains the special provisions of the Convention relating to developing countries.
All the Member States of the ILO are regularly questioned on the situation in the fields covered by all the conventions that have entered into force . This happens
regularly in respect of the conventions which they have ratified and periodically
in respect of those which they have not ratified.
Eight ACP States are not, or are not yet, members of the ILO : Cape Verde, the Comores, Equatorial Guinea, the Gambia, Lesotho, Sao Tome and Principe, Tonga and Samoa. Two ACP States became members in May 1978 : Botswana and Djibouti.
The number of ratifications in the ACP States must therefore be looked at in the- light of the fact that 43 ACP States were members of the ILO as of 1 January 1978.
The number of ratifications of Convention No 138 (on the minimum age in general) must be considered in conjunction with the number of ratifications of Convention No 5 (minimum age in industry).
The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, which was adop ted by the United General Assembly in 1976, has so far been ratified by 51 States.
The Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy was adopted unanimously by the International Labour Office's Gover­ ning Body on which all the regions of the world are represented : 10 industriali­ zed countries (including A EEC countries), 2 Eastern European countries and 13 de­ veloping countries .
Since a Link is to be established between Community aid and development coopera­ tion and compliance with certain minimum labour standards derived from ILO conven­ tions and since it is proposed to call on the cooperation of the ILO to monitor the effective application of those standards, it is important to know the proce­ dures and practice followed by the ILO in this field, in which it has considerable resources and long and valuable experience .
a) Provisions in the ILO Constitution
Articles 19, 22, 23, 24, 26 and 35 of the ILO Constitution indicate precisely how an international labour convention adopted by the Conference is to be sub­ mitted for ratification by the national parliaments and also states precisely the obligations of the Member States, namely :
. Each Member State undertakes to provide the International Labour Office with an annual report on the measures adopted by it to implement the conventions to which it has acceded .
These reports are drawn up in the form indicated by the Governing Body and must contain the details requested by that Body.
. Even if the convention has not been ratified by the competent national
authority, the Member State must still submit reagrds at appropriate
intervals - as decided by the ILO Governing Body - on its legislation
and practice concerning the question covered by the convention, speci­
fying the extent to which it has implemented or will implement the pro­ visions of the convention and setting out the difficulties preventing or
delaying its application .
 . A Member State , or employers or workers' representative organization , may bring a complaint or lodge a grotest against another Member State which, in their view, is not applying in a satisfactory way a convention which it has ratified . ( In the case of formal complaints , the State
. bringing the complaint must also have ratified the convention in question).
b) Resources available to the ILO
- A Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations - made up of independent experts - has a whole arsenal of means enabling it to obtain precise information on the legislative situation and in particular on the practices in the various Member States, whether or not they have ratified the contentions in question .
- This Committee of Experts receives the annual reports drawn up by the States and supplemented by :
. the reports of the labour inspection services, stating the number of ins­ pection visits, the infringements against national legislation and the pe­ nalties imposed ;
. the statistical yearbooks published in the countries ;
. the observations of employers' or workers* organizations ;
. the collections of legal or administrative decisions ;
. trie reports on direct contacts ;
. the reports of missions undertaken in the field of technical cooperation, and
. all other official publications .
. At the present time detai led reports drawn up by reference to a number
of criteria must be supplied every year, every two years or every foup
years depending on the convention and the importance of the question covered .
 The report established by the Committee of Experts is submitted to the Annual Tripartite Conference ; a working committee - also tripartite - questions the representatives of the Member States - Ministers bf Labour or their delegates - on the situations brought to light by the report and on their intentions with regard to them.
In the event of serious repeated failure on the part of a Member State
to carry out its obligations under one or more conventions, the Committee of the Conference may place that State on a "special list" ; despite its purely moral force, the Member States fear the list and do their utmost
to keep off it.
By way of example, the Committee of the 197 Conference placed the follo­ wing countries on the special list :
In addition to the resources referred to above, the ILO can also call on supplementary means of investigation to deal with special situations :
. enquiries - questioning governments, employers' or workers' organizations on a specific problem ;
. an on-the-spot Committee of enquiry (e.g. Portugal, Angola and Mozambi­ que in 1961 and Chile in 1974 ) ;
. examination of complaints by the Tripartite Committee on Freedom of Association. and the Investigation and Conciliation Committee, concer­ ning the infringement of trade union rights - these complaints can be examined whether or not the Government has ratified the corresponding conventions ( Japan , Greece , Lesotho , Chile ) ;
. establishment of study groups to study particular situations in detail ;
. the direct contact procedure, which is used for the joint examination ( International Labour Office-Government ) of obstacles to the ratifica­ tion or application of any given convention (Portugal, Singapore,
Malaysia, the Andean Pact countries, Jordan, Urugay, Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, Liberia)
As can be seen, the ILO has established a procedure and machinery enabling it to monitor continiously the extent to which the international labour conventions adopted by the Conference have been ratifed by the national Parliaments and to what extent they are actually being applied.
Subject: International standards on working conditions (COM (78)492 )
Results of special Chefs de Cabinet's meeting, 22 September 1978
The Chefs de Cabinet met on Friday 22 Septembe- 1978, with Mr Avery, Adviser, President's Cabinet, in the chair, to prepare the Commission's discussion on the above subject at its kSrr~h
The communication from Mr Cheysson (COM(78)^92) was subjected to a preliminary scrutiny.
It was noted that Mr Vredeling, like Mr Haferkamp, had not been able to study the communication, and reserved his position.
It was agreed that the matter should be included on the agenda for the Commission's ^87th meeting, on 27 September, for purposes of procedure .
It was agreed to suggest that the Commission have the matter placed on the agenda for a future meeting for substantive decision.
(Mr Cheysson's Chef de Cabinet expressed a preference for the meeting on October, but Mr Haferkamp's Chef de Cabinet said his Commis­
sionerwouldstillbeinChinathen.) Preparatoryproceedingsby the Chefs de Cabinet were to continue meantime.
(l) Zie "The International Labour Standards, IAO, 1978#
• alle andere officiële publikaties.
Communication to the Council )* U" \- ■<> •» ■ ?!
 In its Memorandum (COM(78)47 final of 16 February 1978) on the renewal
of the Lome Convention, the Commission indicated, in 'Chapter II.C.3. "Considerations relating to' working conditions " why and how it is contemplating the establishment of a "link between the advantages offered by the Community (particularly in the commercial field) and the observance of certain basic international standards governing working conditions", this link to apply to all the developing countries,
including the ACP States.
The policy guidelines proposed in this Communication reflect this concern and the proposed implementing arrangements are dovetailed as far as possible with the procedures that exist or are already envisaged inter alia in the context of the renewal of the
The objectives of the Community* s development cooperation policy must be to promote social progress in the developing countries as much as economic growth. It is therefore important for the Community to ensure that these two objectives are pursued simultaneously in the implementation and application of its development cooperation policy, especially as economic progress of the people concerned is tied to social conditions.
Given the difficult economic and social circumstances in which the countries of the Community find themselves, it is more important than ever, and at the same time more difficult, to convince public opinion in the Community that a cooperation policy is justified. In the field of trade cooperation in particular, the protectionist pressures that are threatening to hamper the industrialization of the developing countries must be resisted.
The establishment of a link between the advantages offered by the Community and the observance of minimum labour standards accomodates these points of concern;
– it helps to guarantee equality of opportunity among the developing countries
in the matter of access to the Community market by ensuring that those that apply the international labour conventions are not penalized;
– it is designed to promote the social objectives of development. The choice of standards
The first task of the Commission was therefore to choose from among the vast body of standards covered by the 151 ILO conventions, the minimum labour
standards considered as being the most fundamental and to group them together in a text that could serve as a basis for Community action. The basic texts, which forms Annex I, is a self-contained whole with precise definitions, which though derived directly from the ILO instruments, reproduces only their essential features and takes account of the state of legislation and the
de facto situation in a large number of developing countries. It takes four labour standards that are considered fundamental, these being proceeded by a statement of general principles ( see Annex II for the legal References to
the corresponding conventions).
Where the conventions provided for flexibility clauses in the case of the developing countries , allowance has been made for this .
Article 1 ( General Principles ) is a general statement of intent concerning the implementation of the text as a whole.
 Article 2 (Equality of Opportunity and Treatment in employment and. of
profession) will apply in each State "to that State's nationals and. is designed, to prevent any de .jure or de facto discrimination between the various
categories of the national population "by reference to the criteria listed (*).
Article 3 (Working Hours) relates to a fundamental standard, which is however accompanied by a flexibility clause, establishing a limit on the duration of the working week. It corresponds to the de .jure or de facto
situation in most countries, even where, for various reasons, they have not ratified the corresponding ILO Convention, which dates back to 1919.
Article 4 (Employment of Children and Adolescents) follows the provisions of the convention in question which were established specifically for the developing countries (**). It also corresponds moreover to the legislation adopted by a large number of developing countries pursuant to Convention Mo 5 on the minimum age in industry.
Article 4(b)is designed to look after the health and safety of children and adolescents and takes over standards established by three successive ILO conventions .
It would have been possible to adopt as a basis the relevant ILO conventions themselves. However, since the number of ratifications of these conventions by the ILO Member States varies considerably according to their content and date, it became apparent that it would be very difficult to evolve a satisfactory uniform system to monitor the actual application of the
standards and the overall context of the relevant conventions.
The formula adopted makes it possible to draw up a Community basic text which refers directly to the ILO international conventions governing certain minimum working conditions (***).
( *) The expression "national origin", as used in Article 2 of Annex I, refers to those that have acquired the. status of national by
{ **) Artisanal firms are not covered by the convention in question; it
expressly excludes agricultural, family or small firms whose production is intended for the local market and which do not regularly employ
(***) See Annex II.
The standards adopted in the basic text can be considered to represent a minimum. Certain business and labour circles in the Community would like the Community to go further in this direotion by considering other basic standards covering working conditions , notably those relating to the fixing of a minimum wage, trade-union freedom, negotiating rights and questions of health and safety at work.
The Commission oonsiders that it should be possible to examine this possibility at a later date in the li^it of the experience gained in implementing the present arrangements, account also being taken of other developments stemming from the Community's initiative.
It is reasonable to think that by giving priority to the observance of standards which directly affect people (age, non-discrimination, working hours) the Community's action will have significant political scope and
will thus accelerate a trend that is already apparent. The reference
to the ILO conventions and the cooperation requested of the International Labour Office will also help towards this end. It is time that none of
the conventions to which the standards adopted refer has yet been ratified by all ILO member states, but their ratification is not a decisive factor: after adoption by the annual conferences of the ILO, their purpose is to provide an impetus for economic and social development in all countries
and they constitute the basis for the adoption of standards and the provision of technical assistance by the ILO , which have produced remarkable results both in the industrialized countries and in the developing countries, even the poorest (1).
Furthermore, the Director-General and the Department of Standards of the International Labour Office have noted with interest the Commission's
stated intention in this field and have supplied all the necessary information on international labour standards and the procedures relating thereto.
(1) See "International work standards", ILO, 1978*
The application of the arrangements for implementing-the principles contained in this communication requires the cooperation of the International Labour Office. Since this text derives directly from the corpus of ILO conventions and other international instruments whose application is monitored by the ILO, the Community intends to request that organization to use (1 ) its own monitoring procedures and machinery for the application of conventions, irrespective of whether certain countries have or have not ratified the ILO conventions in their entirety (see Annex III, page 1, last paragraph).
Although the International Labour Office*s control over the application of the international conventions does not extend to real sanctions, it nevertheless exertsconsiderablemoralpressureontheStatesconcerned. Itmaybenoted
in this connection that there are between seventy-five and a hundred cases
each year where the ILO's monitoring organs are able to express their satisfaction with measures taken by governments to introduce the necessary changes in their national legislation or practice as a result of previous observations by the monitoring organs, in question regarding the extent to which the legislation or practice of the country concerned was in accordance with the provisions of a ratified convention.
Furthermore, a resolution adopted by the ILO Conference in 1977 urgently asks Member States to bear in mind the need to adjust aid policy, so far as possible, vis-a-vie States in respect of which it is established, following examination by the relevant ILO organs, that they axe regularly violating basic human rightsandsocialandtradeunionrights. Theconcreteeffectsofcontrolling the application of standards adopted by the Community would not therefore
involve a new departure for the Governing Body of the International Labour Office (2).
(1)SubjecttotheprioragreementoftheGoverningBodyoftheILO. There aretwoprecedentsinthisfield% theagreementexpressedbytheGoverning Body of the International Labour Office for controlling the application
of the "International pact in respect of economic, social and cultural rights" as asked for by the UN (ECOSOC) and the "European social security code" asked for by the Council of Europe. .
(2) This organization has for some years been concerned with the definition of equitablelabourstandardsinthecontextofinternationaltrade: the International Labour Office devoted a detailed study to this subject between
1971 and 1973 - following an intervention from President Senghor – and the Director-General has already dealt with it in his report at the 58th session
of the ILO Conference (1973;*
Scope of "fche arrangements
The Community's development cooperation policy is not aimed solely at the economio development of the countries receiving aid but also at their social progress. Accordingly, the preamble of the Lome Convention expressly links the two terms (l).
It is therefore only right that the Community should want to attach to the commercial, financial and technical assistance that it gives certain conditions designed to promote the social ends of development.
– At the level of finanoial and technical cooperation the principle will be applied in the execution of the projects and programmes financed by the Community institutions.
– Application of this principle to trade cooperation will have the effect of establishing a link between the trade perferences granted autonomously by the Community to certain developing countries, together with the preferential trade arrangements written into the association agreements, and the beneficiary countries' observance of the minimum labour standards (set out in the basic text which forms Annex i).
(l) "Resolved to intensify their efforts together for the economic development and social progress of the ACP States".
The Community will have to comply withtwo preoccupations when applying the principle: ; .
(a) th^t of maintaining a fair "balance between the aims pursued «nd the ' repercussions for the countries concerned# With the active ,
collaboration of the International Labour Office, the particular, circumstanced of the least developed countries will have to be taken
, • into account and could sometimes result in delaying the effective ■ application of the conventions which they have-ratified (1);
(b) that of avoiding the impression that the proposed arrangements are inspired by protectionism. This is one reason why the Commission proposes that its preferential advantages in the framework of its cooperation and development policy should be dependent upon compliance with the minimum standards adopted, although this would not apply to access to' the Community market of products coming from developing countries. It must be made absolutely dear that in carrying out
the Commission's proposal, the Community's aim will be to help countries benefiting from its cooperation to base their economic growth on conditions which are compatible with social progress.
The Commission's proposal is far from being part of a protectionist trend. It will in fact strengthen the support of Community business and labour for an open development cooperation policy by reserving preferences for the many countries who are trying to base their economic growth on conditions which are compatible with social progress. Nor should exceptions be made for the few. cases where under-development is used to justify inhuman working conditions .
\1 ) Among the countries which the ILO Conference Committee placed on its "Special list" in 1977 because of serious failures in their obligations,' ' the following poor countries have since complied with the rules and are "
no longer on the list in 1978: Upper Volta, Mauritania, Central
. African -Empire . , ; This
shows that the standards
are useful and effective .
This principle will have "to be implemented, by the Community^.vis-a-vis all countries in receipt of its aid as follows :
– on a contractual basis under the preferential cooperation agreements;
– on the initiative of the Community, in the application of its generalized preferences scheme. This could be done on the occasion of the review scheduled for 1 9^0 , after information in the appropriate international forums (UUCTAD, GATT, OECD), on the selection of standards which the Community consider fundamental and on the method of application.
In any event, these measures cannot be implemented by the Community in the framework of the generalized preferences scheme - as the Commission has indicated in its first communication on the renewal of the Lom^-Convention -
until the Community takes decisions of principle regarding all the countries concerned .
V. Implementing procedures and arrangements
The principles and scope of the arrangements for implementing the minimum standards set . out in the basic text will be the same for all developing countries but the procedures will differ according to the context in which the Community has to act – unilateral (GSP) or contractual (Lome Convention or Mediterranean agreements).
i. The Commission, acting on its own initiative or at the request of a Member State , on being informed of an infringement of the standards
adopted will ask the International Labour Office – without prejudiceto the use of the Commission^ own on-the-spot information resources - to verify this information (see Annex III on the ILOfs procedures and practice ).
ii. Where appropriate, the Commission, with the approval of the Council, will initiate consultations with the developing country or countries concerned to find a solution acceptable to the parties concerned.
iii . Failing such a solution , persistent non-compliance with the minimum standards and any injury suffered by the Community Member States will oblige the Community to take the necessary measures.
In the case of countries with which the Community has oonoluded preferential cooperation agreements, these measures will be taken pursuant to the safeguard clauses written into the agreements, the said clauses possibly being adapted for this purpose. Where the injury is due essentially to non-compliance with the minimum standards adopted, it is understood at Community level that these measures cannot go beyond the temporary withdrawal of the exemption from customs duties and charges having equivalent effect accorded by the cooperation agreements under the heading of trade cooperation. Where appropriate, such withdrawal could be confined to the products of one or more sectors of production if it were apparent that the non-compliance with the minimum standards involved only certain products or sectors.
Naturally, at the outset the Community will clarify precisely for the countries concerned what range of standards it considers as fundamental, the violation
of which, by virtue of damages sustained, may lead to the invocation of safeguard clauses.
In the context of the GSP, the Community will take identical measures on an autonomous basis .
(b) In the^fieJLd^of jj^hnica^ and financial assistance
The Community institutions (Commission and EIB) will see to it that due account is taken of social aspects ( l ), ynotably of compliance with the minimum labour standards, in the execution of projects and programmes.
(1) Article 53 (1) of the Lome Convention:
" 1 . The Community shall appraise projects and programmes in close collaboration with the ACP States and any other beneficiaries. The
technical , social , economio , trade , financial , organizational and management aspects of such projects or programmes shall be reviewed systematically."
 VI• Cooperation procedure between the EEC and the ILO
After establishing the basic text setting out the minimum standards which it considers to "be fundamental, the Community would have to
seek with the help of the International Labour Office ways of checking that the standards laid down in the basic text are effectively applied . However , it should be specified that while
it is for the International Labour Office to judge whether the standards adopted in the basic text are being applied, responsibility
for the application of the arrangements lies with the Community, acting on a proposal from, the Commission. The Commission must continue to determine the importance of the complaints and infringements notified to it before requesting the International Labour Office to carry out a check. Even if norn-observance of the minimum labour standards were confirmed by the International Labour Office, the Community would still be the judge of whether it was appropriate to put the arrangements into operation.
The Commission requests the Council to approve these guidelines. At
the appropriate time, it will put forward proposals for their
technical implementation, both in the context of the renewal of the
Lom£ Convention and in the other areas of application of the Community's development cooperation policy.
■'• States will take action using the fS&l'resources' &v£ilable to them – both -
by their own efforts and via international assistance and cooperation, particu­ larly economic and technical - to secure the implementation of the principles established in this text by all appropriate means, including in particular the adoption of legislative measures.
States will take measures designed to -promote on their territory equality "or opportunity and treatment in thd~matter..of 'employment and occupation so that all discrimination based on race, colour, sex, felipion, national origin or social origin is eliminated.
States will take measures to ensure that a limit is set to the number of hours' worked ; this should not exceed 48 hours per week, except in the case of the necessary derogations, a full list of which should be established.
These measures do not affect artisanal undertakings; 'nb* do they -aff«ct agriculturalffamily or small*-scale undertakings producing for the locals market which do. not -employ paid;.workers on a regular basis.
b> Inadditiontotheminimumagefortakingupemploymentingeneral,legislation must fix the age below which children and adolescents must not be employed or engaged in dangerous or insalubrious work or be employed or work at night.
a) Stateswilltakemeasures:tosecuretheeffectiveabolitionof-childlabour* ι_·
AIL- the articles making up the basic text have their Legal source either in the ILO Conventions that have entered into force - i.e. after the minimum number of ratifications by the Member States has been reached - or in the United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (1976) (the In­ ternational Labour Office was instructed by ECOSOC to help monitor the implementa­
tion of the Covenant), or lastly in the ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises -and Social Policy ( 1977), which was* unani­
mously adopted by the Governing Body of the International Labour Office.
More specifically, the articles making up the basic text (Annex I : MINIMUM LABOUR STANDARDS),refer'''' ''•
: to the Covenant, Article 2 1)
: to' Convention No III , Artide 1 a), and
to the Declaration on Multinational Enterprises, etc.. para. 21
: to Convention No I, and
to the Covenant, Article 7 d)
: . to Convention No 5, and
: to Convention No 79
to Convention No 90, Artide 3 I) and to Convention No 138, Artide 3 I).
(*) Article 2, para. 4 of Convention No 138 contains the special provisions of the Convention relating to developing countries .
Since a link is to be established between Community aid and development coopera­ tion and compliance with certain minimum labour standards derived from ILO conven­ tions and since it is proposed to call on the cooperation of the ILO to monitor the effective application of those standards, it is important to know the proce­ dures and practice followed by the ILO in this field, in which it has considerable resources and long and valuable experience .
a) Provisions in the ILO Constitution
Articles 19, 22, 23, 24> 26 and 35 of the ILO Constitution indicate precisely 0
how an international labour convention adopted by the Conference is to be sub­ mitted for ratification by the national parliaments and also states precisely
the obligations of the Member States, namely :
. Each Member State undertakes to provide the International Labour Office with an annual report on the measures adopted by it to implement the conventions to which it has acceded . .
These reports are drawn up in the form indicated by the Governing Body and must contain the details requested by that Body.
. Even if the convention has not been ratified by the competent national authority, the Member State must still submit reagrds at appropriate intervals - as decided by the ILO Governing Body - on its legislation and practice concerning the question covered by the convention, speci­ fying the extent to which it has implemented or will implement the pro­ visions of the convention and setting out the difficulties preventing or delaying its application .
 . A Member State , or employers * or workers' representative organization , may bring a complaint or lodge a grotest against another Member State
which, in their view, is not applying in a satisfactory way a convention
which it has ratified . ( In the case of formal complaints , the State
. bringing the complaint must also have ratified the conv.-ntion in question).
Resources available to the ILO
- A Committee of Experts on the Application of Conventions and Recommendations - made up of independent experts - has a whole arsenal of r^eans enabling it to obtain precise information on the legislative situation ^nd in particular on the practices in the various Member States, whether or not they have ratified the contentions in^question.
- This Committee of Experts receives the annual reports dr^wn up by the States and supplemented by :
. the reports of the labour inspection services, stating the number of ins­ pection visits, the infringements against national legislation and the pe­ nalties imposed ;
. the statistical yearbooks published in the countries ;
. the observations of employers' or workers" organizations i
. the collections of legal or administrative decisions ;
. the reports on direct contacts ;
. the reports of missions undertaken in the field of technical cooperation, and
. all other official publications .
. At the present time detailed reports drawn up by reference to a number of criteria must be supplied every year, every two yes.'S or every four years depending on the convention and the importance o* the question covered . .
In addition to the resources referred to above, the ILO can also call on supplementary means of investigation to deal with special situations •:
. enquiries - questioning governments, employers' or workers' organizations on a specific problem ;
. an on-the-spot Committee of enquiry (e.g. Portugal, Angola and Mozambi­ que in 1961 and Chile in 1974) ;
. examination of complaints by the Tripartite Committee on Freedom of Association, and the Investigation and Conciliation Committee, concer- ning the infringement of trade union rights - these complaints can be examined whether or not the Government has ratified the corresponding conventions ( Japan , Greece , Lesotho , Chile ) ;
The report established by the Committee of Experts is submitted to the Annual Tripartite Conference ; a working committee - also tripartite - questions the representatives of the Member States - Ministers bf Labour or their delegates - on the situations brought to light by the report and on their intentions with regard to them.
In the event of serious repeated failure on the part of a Member State
to carry out its obligations under one or more conventions, the Committee
of the Conference may place that State on a "special list" ; despite its purely moral force, the Member States fear the list and do their utmost to keep off it.
By way of example, the Committee of the 197 Conference placed the follo­ wing countries on the special list ;
. establishment of study groups to study particular situations in detail ; . the direct contact procedure, which is used for the joint examination
( International Labour Office-Government ) of obstacles to tfje ratifica­
tion or application of any given convention (Portugal, Singapore,
Malaysia, the Andean Pe~.t countries, Jordan, Urugay, Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, Liberia)
As can be seen, the ILO has established a procedure and machinery enabl it to monitor continuously the extent to which the international labour conventions adopted by the Conference have beenr&tified by the national Parliaments and to what extent they are actually being applied.
 ILO's rolle
• enhver anden officiel publikation.
