This paper is a pendant to the paper on External Representation – Medium Term Policy, which the Commission sent to the Council in July 1977.
Part One describes the present situation as regards cooperation "between the Commission's external offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States (commercial affairs, information, development policy, posting of Commission officials to certain non-Community countries , rationalisation). Someimprovementsaresuggested.
Part Two describes the internal administration of the different kindsofexternaloffices(conditionsofemployment, salariesand currency for payments, social security, education, entertainment allowance, accommodation policy, inspection and rotation).
This paper is a pendant to the paper on External Representation – Medium Term Policy, which the Commission sent to the Council in July 1977•
Part One describes the present situation as regards cooperation between the Commission's external offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States (commercial affairs, information, development policy, posting of Commission officials to certain non-Community countries, rationalisation). Someimprovementsaresuggested.
Part Two describes the internal administration of the different kindsofexternaloffices(conditionsofemployment, salariesand currency for payments, social security, education, entertainment allowance, accommodation policy, inspection and rotation).
of contracts with officials employed abroad") erläutert, die im Dezember 1977
Brussels , 23 February 1978
from the President , Mr. HAFERKAMP, Mr. CHEYSSON and Mr. GUNDELAGH)
– This question is on the agenda of the 464th meeting of the Commission, Wednesday 1st March 1978#
To : Members of the Commission
Directors General and Heads of Service
This paper is a pendant to the paper on External Representation - Medium Term Policy, which the Commission sent to the Council in July 1977^
Part One describes the present situation as regards cooperation "between the Commission's external offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States (commercial affairs, information, development policy, posting of Commission officials to certain non-Community countries, rationalisation). Someimprovementsaresuggested.
Part Two describes the internal administration of the different kinds of external offices (conditions of employment, salaries and currency for payments, social security, education, entertainment allowance, accommodationpolicy, inspectionandrotation).
 Memorandum to "the Commission
presented by the President, I-Ir. Haferkamp, Mr. Cheysson and Mr. Tugendhat
On 22 July 1977 the Commission sent to the Council a Communication
on External Representation - Medium Terra Policy (doc. COM(77) 368 final). At that time the Commission undertook to present a further paper to the Councilwhichwouldgointomoredetail. Theattachedpaper,whichhas been prepared by the ad hoc Group set up by the Commission for the purpose,
is intended to fulfil that undertaking.
The first part of the paper concerns cooperation between the Commission1 external offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States. The present situation is described and a number of suggestions made for improving it.
The second part of the paper concerns the internal administration of the different kinds of external offices. It is mainly descriptive, dealing with matters of management which fall to the Commission as such. We do not believe, therefore, that in this part of the paper it is necessary or appropriate to indicate to the Council, in every case, the specific measures the Commission proposes to take to improve the situation. In addition a good deal of work remains to be done. The conclusion to this part of the paper therefore indicates that the Commission intends a further review.
We are persuaded that ,: building on the work which has already been done, further progress can be made in achieving convergence between the differing arrangements which the Commission employs in its relations with
its external offices. working to a timetable Commission principally
This could best be done by an interservice group and under the supervision of the Members of the concerned.
We therefore propose that the Commission –
1) adopt the attached draft Communication to the Council on . external representation;
2) set up an interservice group, composed of representatives of the Secretariat General, D.G.fs I, VIII, IX, GPP/x and XX, responsible for
 examining ways in which progress can be made in achieving convergence between the various methods by which the Commission organizes its relations with its external offices; the group may call on other Services as necessary.
3) invite the Members of the Commission principally concerned to supervise the work of the interservice group by meetings between their representatives and the group. These should not be less frequent than three times a year;
4) invite the Members of the Commission principally concerned to submit to the Commission as soon as possible a work programme for the interservice group.
Communication from the Commission to the Council
On 22 July 1977 the Commission sent to the Council a Communication on External Representation - medium term policy (doc. COM(77) 368 final). At that time the Commission undertook to present a further paper to the Councilwhichwouldgointomoredetail. Thepresentpaperisintended to fulfil that undertaking.
The first part of the paper discusses ways of strengthening cooperation
"between the Commission's offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States.
The second concerns measures the Commission itself proposes to take to bring about greater harmonization of the internal administration of the different kinds of external offices.
PART ONE – Cooperation between the Commission's external offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States v
In view of the increasing weight in world affairs of the Community as
an entity, it is important that the diplomatic representatives of Member States in non-Community countries, as well as the representatives of the Commission, should be in a position to project a coordinated picture of Communitypolicy. Thisisequallyimportantinthemanycountriesinwhich the Commission is not represented. The Commission believes that the machinery for coordination should be strengthened and the supply of information improved.
In those third countries in which the Commission is represented effective cooperation is increasingly taking place in practice at all levels,
including the participation of the Heads of the Commission's Offic03 in the regular meetings of the Ambassadors of Member States.
On 17 April 1973 the Council adopted a text concerning the procedure for the preparation, transmission and use of reports from the Commercial
Counsellors of diplomatic missions of Member States in non–EEC countries. The inclusion of the Commission's external offices in this procedure was
not envisaged at the time, but there has since grown up good practical cooperationbetweenexternalofficesandmissions. Theexternaloffices
take part in the meetings of the Commercial Counsellors and supply information on Community policies bearing on common commercial policy and the application of cooperation agreements.
 It would be advisable if this informal collaboration could be made official "by the Council.
Information Counsellors prepare reports according to a procedure similar
to that applicable in the case of Commercial Counsellors. Furthermore, in accordance with a Council decision of 31 January 1972^ , as confirmed by a
Council decision of 3 May 1977
Office of the Commission takes part in meetings of Information Counsellors
and helps to draft the reports. Each report receives a reply from the Council, whichisdraftedbytheservicesoftheCommission. Thesedirectivesshould continue to be applied.
In countries where the Commission has no external office, for example in some EFTA countries , contacts are arranged at least once a year between the Information Counsellors in Member States* missions and an official of the Commission's information services.
Similar arrangements are made for the Delegates in ACP countries.
Following a meeting in February 1977 of senior Foreign Ministry information officials arrangements were made for Member States* missions to draw on back­ ground material available from the Commission services, and there are other
possibilitiesofcooperationinthefieldofinformation. Thesearrangements are set out in three Council notes. ^
The Commission believes that cooperation in this field should now be reviewed in the light of experience, with a view to holding a further meeting towards the end of 1978 of senior information officials of Member States and the Commission.
» the Head of the Press and Information
The Council adopted on 8 November 1976 a resolution concerning the coordination and harmonisation of development policies in the Community.
This provided for the reinforcing of existing cooperation of Member States* representatives and the Commission delegates in ACP countries. A further resolution was adopted on 28 November 1977 which invited the Commission to extend its activities of coordination, which should be organized in a more systematic way.
These resolutions should be applied to all countries in which the Commission has external offices primarily concerned with the execution of cooperation agreements.
2. In third countries in which the Commission is not represented the essential problem is one of informing the Embassies of Member States of Community policies.
In a letter dated 22 November 1974 to Mr. Burin des Roziers, President of the Committee of Permanent Representatives, Sir Christopher Soames and Mr. Cheysson underlined the need to provide Member States' missions with more information on Community policy and decisions.
On 13 October 1975» the Council adopted a procedure to inform Member States' missions, after each Council meeting, of Council decisions which concern them. Experience has shown that information supplied in accordance with this procedure is not adequate for the needs expressed by the Embassies themselves.
The Commission suggests that the Council should review the operation of this system in the light of experience gained since 1975*
There is no comparable system for informing Member States' missions of Commission decisions which affect them. The Council's decision of 13
October 1975 stipulated that after a trial period of the system of information on Council decisions, the question of information on Commission decisions should be examined. Hie time has come to take up this question.
The Commission is prepared, in accordance with a procedure to "be determined, to provide information of this type to the missions of Member States.
3• Posting of Commission officials^ t()^cjBrtajjL_Tion|^noTiinniw2^^_^^"2^I12^^i
The Commission has been made aware of an increasing need for the Community viewpoint to be represented as such in some important non- Community countries, where the Commission itself is not represented. A recent example of this is Australia.
The Commission has no intention of meeting this need by setting up anexternalofficeineachofthesecases. Instead,theCommissionwould propose to post in the country concerned, for limited periods, and in response to specific needs, an official who could be attached to the EmbassyoftheMemberStateholdingthepresidency. Hisdutiescouldbe to ensure the direct supply of Member States* missions with the necessary information about Community policy, and act as a focus for on the spot coordination by the Uine.
of this suggestion with the Council and with Member States.
The Commission will follow with great interest the progress of studies at present under way in Member States to rationalise their external
representation. The Commission would be interested in benefiting from the fruits of this exercise.
PART TWO - Internal administration of the different kinds of external offices
1. Conditions of employment a) Introduction
The Regulations and Rules applicable to officials and other Servants
of the European Communities lay down, just as they do for headquarters staff,
The Commission intends to discuss further the practical implications
 the conditions of employment for officials and local staff subject to those Regulationsintheexternaloffices* Theseconditionsvaryaccordingto
theplaceofemployment. Nevertheless,certainspecialmanagementprocedures have been set up, as for example the systems of inspection and rotation mentioned below.
Internal directives concerning payment of allowances and the refunding of expenses have also been adopted to take into account the special nature oftheexternaloffices. Furtheradaptations,whichmayrequirerevision of the Staff Regulations, are currently being considered for possible future presentation to the Council.
In the external offices the Commission employs two broad categories of staff, Community officials posted from Brussels and local officers who
may be engaged for duties at all levels. The latter's conditions of employment are fixed by the Commission in conformity with the Rules applicable to other servants of the European Communities, and are identical except in the areas which vary according to the post, i.e. salaries and social security.
Changes in the terms of employment of local officers in the non–EAC external offices should be introduced to ensure the greatest possible
flexibility in their recruitment and to improve relations with the Central Staff Committee and the local committees.
In ihe external offices managed by EAC, three categories of staff may
be employed. In the future some Delegates may be Community officials. In addition, EAC may recruit staff, locally or not, to carry out higher functions. Most of the locally recruited staff, however, carry out secretarial duties or aremessengers,drivers,guardsordomesticstafffortheDelegate. Tliis latter category is recruited by the Delegate with the prior approval of the EAC central authorities and is managed in accordance with local employment regulations.
The rules governing employment by the EAC were specifically drawn up for the purpose, and have a more flexible procedure for adaptation in
changingcircumstances. Thismeans,forexample,thattheEACcan operate a more flexible policy on accommodation than is possible under the Staff Regulations.
Moreover, the Commission is sending to the Council a draft reform
of the status of the EAC which would set up a public agency under Community law. Thisreformwouldalsoencouragegreaterconvergencebetweentheterms of employment and salary of EAC officials and those subject to the Staff Regulations. ThefollowingaccountofthepositionofEACstaffrefers therefore to the present, unreformed, situation.
The terms of employment of EAC officials are subject to Belgian labour legislation. Theirstandingiscontractual,notstatutoryorsubjectto regulation as is the case with Commission officials.
The contract between the official and the EAC is governed by the "general and special provisions and the Regulation on the administrative Regime", a copy of which he receives on engagement. These documents set
out the official's rights and duties for the duration of his contract. They are reproduced and explained in detail in the document "Collection of texts and instructions for the management of contracts with officials employed abroad", the latest edition of which was issued in December 1977• In addition, the official is given a mandate which defines his duties. This mandate is given by the Commission in the case of an official serving in
a delegation, and by the national authorities in the case of a Technical assistance official.
(b) Salaries and currency for payments
The basic objective of the salary provisions in the Staff Regulations is to ensure, by means of weighting allowances, equivalent purchasing power regardlessofthecountryinwhichtheofficialisposted. Tocalculate the allowances, the Commission makes as much use as possible of statistics available from international organizations such as the UN and the OECD. However, the Statistical Office of the European Communities remains
responsibleforcontroloverthestatisticsused. Technically,the characteristics of the salary system are that it is "based on a single pay scale expressed in Belgian francs (soon to become European Units of Account (EUA) and adjusted "by geographical weighting allowances. These weighting allowances are founded largely on calculations of the cost of living in the various places of work and allow for payment to be made in the local currency.
The Staff Regulations (Article 63) provide for payment normally in thecurrencyofthecountrytowhichanofficialisposted. Recognising
that officials also have obligations, or purchasing needs, elsewhere than
the country of posting, the Regulations (Article 17 of Annex VII) also
providefortransfersofsalaryintoothercurrencies. Thissystemwill
henceforward be based on the EUA, which will diminish a series of problems which have arisen with the now outdated UA. Moreover tinder a Commission
proposal currently being approved by the Council this provision is being up-dated to meet modern monetary conditions so that weighting allowances used for the transferred part of the salary reflect economic conditions
(price levels) in the country to which the transfer is made.
This modification of the transfer article also makes possible some
greater flexibility in its use in a way to be agreed by the Community Institutions. Until now the Commission has limited the proportion of salary transferred to a mar-innimof35$. Itisrecognizedhoweverthatinmanynon-industrialised countries outside the European Communities, local facilities provide inadequately forthepurchasesrequiredtomaintainaEuropeanlif^-style. Inthesecases
it is proposed that the 35$ limit should be waived and a higher proportion according to circumstances, e.g. between 50 – 70$, should be payable in
European currency with a weighting allowance appropriate to the Community country inwhichpaymentismade. Theintentiontodothishasalreadybeenmentioned
to the Staff Regulations Group of the Council, who have asked that all the transfer regulations,whichareatpresentthesubjectofinformalrules, shouldbeagreed withintheInstitutions. Therequiredcommonagreementdocumentisnowbeing
prepared within the Commission.
A number of difficulties have indeed arisen in the application of the Staff Regulations in the external offices. Solutions have however "been found for specific problems, and the situation will be further improved by the introduction of the ECJA and the transfer provisions described above. To sum up, this completion of the salary- system for external offices should, if correctly implemented, maintain the overall objective of equivalence in purchasing power by applying weighting allowances that are appropriate to the country in which an
official should normally "be
proportions of his salary.
would have to be considered
revision designed to operate a different salary system for officials when they are in external offices from that which they have at Headquarters.
expected to spend or deposit various
If difficulties occur a more radical solution involving a probably controversial Statute
The different system used by the EAC provides for
– salary fixed in Belgian francs and paid in the same currency into a
– an overseas allowance which represents 20$ to 30$ of total emoluments.
The allowance is expressed and paid in the currency of the country in which the employee is posted, and varies in accordance with the local cost of living as established in the U.N. statistics.
The EAC system therefore does not give rise to questions on the rate of exchange for the overseas allowance.
In most cases there is no reason for applying the Staff Regulations differently as between Headquarters staff and externally posted staff.
For example the pensions system (maximum pension 70$ of final basic salary after 35 years of service) is equally applicable wherever the years of servicehavebeenaccomplished. Itisgenerallyconsideredtobeagood schemeasarethoseforwidows*andorphans*pensions. Anydetailed improvements made in future (e.g., better benefits for early retirement) would be of general interest and not just to external staff.
 Arrangements for reimbursing medical expenses may on the other hand needadaptationaccordingtotheplaceofwork. Theschemeisinconsequence applied flexibly so that the usual 80% limit on reimbursement is not maintained in countries where the cost of medical treatment is particularly high.
The EA.C official's contract provides for a group insurance "sickness- accident" and "pension", which covers the staff against social risks.
The pension insurance is taken out with the OSSOM (Office de Securite Sociale d'Outre-Mer) for permanent contracts, or with the Societe AG de Trieste for fixed-term contracts. The insurance includes retirement and widow's pension, orphan's pension, allowance for incapacity and a deferred insurance for health care.
The OSSOM regime is at present indexed to the cost of living in Belgium. Contributions are 13.50% for the employer and 6.75% for the employee.
A sickness-accident insurance policy taken out by the EAC with the Cie
Van Breda covers the medical expenses of the official and his wife and dependents, for 100% except in exceptional cases for which there are ceilings; temporary incapacity of the official through sickness; medical care, incapacity, invalidity and death from accident of the official and his family.
Some risks current overseas sire covered e.g. repatriation expenses, civil war, riot etc.
No contribution is made by the official.
The Regulations for payment of educational allowances also provide for the case of Community Staff posted away from Headcjuarters in that educational expenses up to double the normal limit may where justified be paid where the place of work has neither a European school nor a school using the language appropriateforthechild. Themaximumisatpresent6,186FB,plusweighting allowance,permonthperchild, Ify"wayofexamplethiscurrentlygivesstaff in Washington a maximum of 7.856 FB per child.
 EAC regulations provide for the reimbursement of education fees and charges up to a ceiling of 2000 PB per month for children educated overseas
accompanying their parents and 5000 PB per month for children remaining behind to complete their education in Europe.
The Commission has introduced a system of fixed entertainment allowances for its external offices outside the Member States. The allowances are
granted annually. Those who receive them are required to make six-monthly reportsontheusetheymakeoftheallowances. Anobjectiveofthesystem which has certainly been realised was to create a certain degree of harmony between offices, where there had previously been a mixture of fixed allowances and other reimbursement arrangements.
The EAC system provides that only the Delegates have their entertaining expenses refunded, although the general provisions provide for exceptions
tobemade(art.58)* Thispossibilityisnotinfactmadeuseofforthe benefit of the other officials.
The allowance has a ceiling fixed for each year according to the country concerned. Hieceilingisindicatedinthecontract. Atpresentitvaries between 2.500 EUA and 4*500 EUA.
Partofthisfixedamount(lessthan50$)ispaidinalumpsum. The remainder is subject to prior authorization and must be accounted for.
For exceptional entertainment (for example the visit of a Member of the Commission)| expenditure above the ceiling can be authorized.
The weighting allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations normally includesanelementforrent. Thisimpliesthatnofurtherallowanceshould
be granted purely for basic accommodation.
Nevertheless, the Commission may support a part of accommodation
expenses either when the official is required to provide regular official
entertainment in his residence, or if he is posted in a country in which housing conditions are exceptionally difficult.
Grants of accommodation expenses are made according to a fixed procedure of calculation which has given reasonable satisfaction.
The EAC provides its officials with furnished accommodation suited to thar.professional and family situation.
Air conditioners are supplied (according to the composition of the family) if the climate justifies it, which is almost always the case in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.
The EAC pays a part of the cost of electricity for air conditioning (400kwhpermonthperairconditioningunit). Onlythedelegatesare
refunded the full cost of electricity.
– Provision of officiai accommodation (i) Present situation
For the Offices and Delegations of the "classical" type, the Commission hires and furnishes office accommodation.
The only purchases of "buildings or apartments were made before the amalgamation of the Executives with ECSC funds (Paris, London and Montevideo).
The Commission does not purchase or rent accommodation for its officials, except for the official residences at Washington or Ottawa which are Commission property. TheCommissionmakesareasonablecontributiontothefurnishing
of reception rooms in the residences of Heads of Delegation.
The EAC hires accommodation and furnishes it.
 If no accommodation is to be hired, locally, an attempt is made to arrange with the government of the host country to build with EDF finance.
The first arrangement made on these lines provides for putting a site at the Commission's disposal, transferring the ownership of the buildings to the Government when building is completed, and making the offices available to the Delegation free of charge for the duration of the EDF's activities in the country.
The Commission intends to continue to rent accommodation for its Offices and Delegations. Only in exceptional cases, or when the local property market
makes it impossible or uneconomic , will the purchase of accommodation be considered.
As regards private accommodation for officials, a distinction should be made between the situation in developing countries and that in countries where the standard of living is comparable to the Community's.
In the former the policy of the EAC is justified and should be continued.
In countries with a high standard of living, the Commission should only intervene in exceptional cases where the local situation is especially difficult, whether because of a shortage of suitable accommodation or because of rents out of proportion with the cost of purchasing.
In their daily working relationship with the external offices the Commission services keep a permanent check on their work by means of written reports and duty trips.
In addition, all external offices, like other Commission services, are subjecttochecksbyFinancialControl. I$ydecisionof20December1975ithe Commission instructed Financial Control to inspect on the spot the way in which Heads of external offices in ACP countries perform internal administrative and
financial duties in their offices.
On 25 July 1975 the Commission decided to set tip an inspection team, whose members would vary according to the nature of the post to be inspected. The inspections carried out by this team, which form part of the general programme for reviewing the operation and organization of the Commission's services, are designed to review the duties of the post and the staff and equipment at its disposal and to check on the spot on financial management.
The Commission adopts its inspection programme at the beginning of each year.
Pour inspections of offices (Ankara, Ottawa, Bonn and London) have so far been made, the last of them during November 1977• These were designed aspilotinspections. Areportsummarisingtheirresultsandmaking recommendations for the future was prepared in February 1978.
For the Commission's external offices in ACP countries, in addition
to the permanent check "by Commission services and the overall responsibility of Financial Control mentioned above, the European Association for Cooperation
(EAC) can inspect offices on the spot to check their management of aid agreements and in general their operating conditions.
The following missions have been carried out by the competent services to inspect delegations in the ACP countries.
a) joint missions of the Financial Control and the responsible service to Senegal and Ivory Coast in 1976, Surinam, Dutch West Indies, Cameroon and Chad in 1977? probably Zaire, Mali, Togo and Benin in 1978.
In accordance with the Commission's decision of 20 December 1975i these missions were designed to inspect the delegation's control methods and the conditions of financial and technical execution of the projects and programmes
financed "by the EDF.
b) missions of financial inspection by EAC to Ghana, Upper Volta, Mali andNigeriain1977andprobablyZambia, TanzaniaandtheSudanin1978.
These missions were designed to check the post accounts on the spot. •*/••
A system of rotation for Commission officials to delegations in third countries has been introduced "by the Commission, in parellel to a system of internal mobility.
This system is designed to give officials breadth of experience while ensuring that external representation is carried out by officials with experience of work in the Commission's headquarters, as well as to make possible the posting to external offices of officials from services other than those principally concerned with external relations.
The system applies to A, B and C officials. Special consideration is given to management and personal problems, particularly in the two latter cases. The system operates by means of regular consideration of fresh postings for all officials who have been in posts abroad for 3 years or more^ on the basis that a posting is normally for 3 years but that this can be extended for up to three further years. The first new postings under this system will take place in 1978*
The ensemble of EAC expatriate overseas personnel axe rotated on an ad hoc basis dependent on the requirements of the service about once every four years.
In order to encourage the mobility of Commission officials and their interpenetrationwiththestaffofEAC, theCommissionhadaskedtheCouncil for34postsinthe1977Budget. TheCouncilstipulatedthattheexecution
of this operation would be conditional on settling various political, financial andstaffstatusquestions. Theexplanationsrequestedwillshortlybesent to the Council in the form of a working paper.
This paper is designed to enable the Council's decision of 23 November 1976tocreate34poststobeputintoeffect. Itreviewsthepolitical, statutory and financial aspects of the exercise.
The Commission does not believe "that "the existence of two systems for managing its relations with its external offices, which differ in some
respects as the foregoing account makes clear, presents in itself an obstacle to efficient operation. It is the Commission's policy to find solutionsforproblemsastheyarise. Nevertheless,theCommissionis keeping the situation under review, with a view to making further progress in achieving convergence between the differing arrangements.
 On13October1975, theCounciladoptedasanApointthefollowing decision (see doc. I^2329/l/75 (AG 52 rev. l) :
Immediately after each Council meeting the General Secretariat of the Council would draw up, under the responsibility of the Presidency, a draft telex providing information for the countries concerned "by the Decision. This draft would then be forwarded to the delegations for approval .
If no comments were received from any delegation within 24 hours , the telex would be considered approved and sent by the Presidency to its Embassy/Embassies in the country/countries concerned.
At the end of the telex, the Embassy of the country holding the Presidency would be asked to forward the telex to the Embassies of the other Member States so that decisions taken might be submitted in co­ ordinated form to the local authorities concerned and to the public.
The above system would be tested for an experimental period and reviewed in the light of results.
The question of information on Commission decisions will be examined in due course.
This paper is a pendant to the paper on External Representation – Medium Term Policy, which the Commission sent to the Council in July 1977.
Part One describes the present situation as regards cooperation "between the Commission's external offices and the diplomatic missions ofMemberStates(commercialaffairs, information, developmentpolicy, posting of Commission officials to certain non-Community countries , rationalisation). Someimprovementsaresuggested.
Part Two describes the internal administration of the different kinds of external offices (conditions of employment, salaries and currency for payments, social security, education, entertainment allowance, accommodationpolicy, inspectionandrotation).
This paper is a pendant to the paper on External Representation «• Medium Term Polioy, which the Commission sent to the Council in July X977»
Part One describes the present situation as regards cooperation between the Commission's external offioes and the diplomatic missions of Member States (commercial affairs, information, development policy, posting of Commission officials to certain non-Community countries, rationalisation)* Someimprovementsaresuggested.
Part TV*o describes the internal administration of the different kinds of external offices (conditions of employment, salaries and eurrenoy for payments, social security, education, entertainment . allowance, accommodationpolicy, inspectionandrotation).
a) ^MissionsconjointesducontrSlefinancieretduserviceresponsable:
Results of speoial Chefs de Cabinet*s meeting, 1 March 1978
In accordance with the procedural arrangements suggested by them at their weekly meeting on 27 February 1978 * the Chefs de Cabinet met on Wednesday
1 March 1978 from 10*30 to 11.50 a.m. to prepare the Commission's discussion
on the communication from the President , Mr Haferkamp , Mr Cheysson and Mr Tugendhat at its meeting on 8 March 1978*
The meeting was chaired by Mr Phillips , the Presidents Deputy Chef de Cabinet .
The following conclusions were reached.
 Consideration of text
It was agreed to recommend, subject to the observations below, that the Commission should :
(i) approve the communication on external representation from the President, Mr Haferkamp, Mr Cheysson and Mr Tugendhat^as amended by the Chefs do
Cabinet^ which is annexed to this report ;
(ii) take the decision to forward it to the Council and the European Parliament;
(iii) instruct an interdepartmental working party composed of representatives from the Secretariat-General and DGs I , VIII , IX , X-Spokesman's Group and XX, which could if need be call in other departments, to consider how the various methods used by the Commission for purposes of its relations with the offices abroad could be brought closer together;
ask the Members of the Commission most closely concerned to supervise the work of the interdepartmental working pary , organizing for the purpose meet ing«between their representatives and the working party . Not less than three such meetings a year should be held ;
aak the Members of the Commission most closely concerned to submit a work programme for the working party to the Commission by 30 April 1978 » taking into account the work already accomplished on the subject.
Points for the attention of the Commission
(i) It was agreed to draw the Commission's attention to the suggestions made in Part I of the communication (particularly in items 2 and 3, pages 3
and 4) toT increased cooperation with the Mamber States' diplomatic missionsin third countries to channel information on the Commission's
decisions and to enable , in certain circumstances , a Commission official to be posted for a fixed period , to meet specific needs , to the Embassy of a Member State, for example, the Embassy of the country holding the
Some of the Chefs de Cabinet feared that such arrangements might have dis­ advantages, particularly for the expansion of the Commission's own offices
(ii) It was agreed to draw the Commission's attention to the detailed, comparative description of the two types of arrangements for offices abroad contained in Part II of the communication. The description given is purely factual, the only inference suggested at this stage being that the various provisions needed to be brought progressively closer together.
Aware of the dangers in presenting the matter this way, the Chefs de Cabinet agreed to suggest that the Commission instruct its representatives at the Council meeting to oppose any discussion of the respective merits of the arrangements until the Commission had informed the Council of its own thinking on the subject and the possible conclusions to be drawn.
A number of the Chefs de Cabinet also said that the Council should be given a circumstantial description, explaining how the provisions for the various arrangements actually worked.
(iii) InviewofthevariousimplicationsofthecommunicationtotheCouncil,
it was agreed to suggest that the Commission Torward it, with the general communication (External Representation - Medium-Term Policy (COM(77) 368 final) to the European Parliament for an opinion, (See item I (ii) above).
On the matter of rotation (item 3» pa-ge 14)» Mr Haferkamp's Chef de Cabinet, while not questioning the statements made in the communication, said that his Commissioner reserved the right to recommend a different system if rotation did not prove feasible.
It was agreed to recommend, subject to the observations in items II and III above, that the Commission approve the communication from the President, Mr Haferkamp,
Mr Cheysson and Mr Tugendhat in the form shown in the Annex.
(Communication from the President, Mr Haferkamp, Mr Cheysson and Mr Gundelach)
(Document COM(78)66 as amended following the Chefs de Cabinet's meeting on 1 March 1978
– amendments marked in the margin)
This paper is a pendant to the paper on External Representation - Medium Term Policy, which the Commission sent to the Council in July 1977.
Part One describes the present situation as regards cooperation between the Commission*s external offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States (commercial affairs, information, development policy, posting of Commission officials to certain non-Community countries, rationalisation). Someimprovementsaresuggested.
Part Two describes the internal administration of the different kindsofexternaloffices(conditionsofemployment, salariesand currency for payments, social security, education, entertainment allowance, accommodation policy, inspection and rotation).
 Mémorandum to -the Commission
presented by the President, Mr. Ilaferkamp, Mr. Cheysson and Mr. Tugendhat
On 22 July 1977 the Commission sent to the Council a Communication
on External Representation - Medium Terra Policy (doc. COM(77) 368 final). At that time the Commission undertook to present a further paper to the Councilwhichwouldgointomoredetail. Theattachedpaper,whichhas been prepared by the ad hoc Croup set up by the Commission for the purpose, is intended to fulfil that undertaking.
The first part of the paper concerns cooperation between the Couunissicr.'p external offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States. The present situation is described and a number of suggestions made for improving it.
The second part of the paper concerns the internal administration of the different kinds of external offices. It is mainly descriptive, dealing with matters of management v:hich fall to the Commission as such. We do not
believe, therefore, that in this part of the paper it is necessary or appropriate to indicate to the Council , in every case , the specific Measures the Commission proposes to take to improve the situation. In addition a good deal of work remains to be done. The conclusion to this part of the paper therefore indicates that the Commission intends a further review,
We are persuaded that,; building on the work which has already oeen done, further progress can be made in achieving convergence between the
differing arrangements which the Commission employs in its relations with its external offices. This could best be done by an interservice group
working to a timetable and under the supervision of the Members of the Commission principally concerned.
We therefore propose that the Commission –
1) adopt the attached draft Communication to the Council on .external representation;
2) Bet up an interservice group, composed of representatives of the Secretariat General. D.G.'s I, VIII, IX, GPP/x and XX, responsible for
examining ways in which progress can be made in achieving convergence between the various methods by which the Commission organizes its relations with its external offices; the group may call on other Services as necessary.
3) invite the Members of the Commission principally concerned to supervise the work of the interservice group by meetings between their representativesandthegroup. Theseshouldnotbelessfrequentthan three times a yearj
4) invite the Kembers of the Commission principally concerned to submit a work programme for the interservice group to the Commission by 30 April 1978, taking into account the work already accomplished on the subject .
Communication from the Commission to the Council
On 22 July 1977 the Commission sent to the Council a Communication on External Representation - medium term policy (doc. COM(77) 368 final). At that time the Commission undertook to present a further paper to the Councilwhichwouldgointomoredetail. Thepresentpaperisintended to fulfil that undertaking.
The first part of the paper discusses ways of strengthening cooperation
between the Commission's offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States.
TCie second concerns measures the Commission itself proposes to take to bring
about greater harmonization of the internal administration of the different kinds of external offices.
PART ONE – Cooperation between the Commission's external offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States
In view of the increasing weight in world affairs of the Community as
an entity, it is important that the diplomatic representatives of Member States in non-Community countries , as well as the representatives of the Commission, should be in a position to project a coordinated picture of Communitypolicy. Thisisequallyimportantinthemanycountriesinwhich theCommissionisnotrepresented. TheCommissionbelievesthatthemachinery for coordination should be strengthened and the supply of information improved.
In those third countries in which the Commission is represented effective cooperation is increasingly taking place in practice at all levels, including the participation of the Heads of the Commission's Offic® in the regular meetings of the Ambassadors of Member States.
On 17 April 1973 the Council adopted a text concerning the procedure for the preparation, transmission and use of reports from the Commercial
Counsellors of diplomatic missions of Member States in non–EEC countries. The inclusion of the Commission's external offices in this procedure was
not envisaged at the time, but there has since grown up good practical cooperationbetweenexternalofficesandmissions. Theexternaloffices takepartinthemeetingsoftheCommercialCounsellors andsupplyinformation on Community policies bearing on common commercial policy and the application of cooperation agreements.
 t would be advisable if this informal collaboration could be made official by the Council.
Information Counsellors prepare reports according to a procedure similar tothatapplicableinthecaseofCommercialCounsellors. Furthermore in accordance with a Council decision of 31 January l972(l>, as confirmed'by a Councildecisionof3May1977 , theHeadofthePressandInformation
Office of the Commission takes part in meetings of Information Counsellors
andhelpstodraftthereports. EachreportreceivesareplyfromtheCouncil,
whichisdrafted*theservicesoftheCommission. Thesedirectivesshould continue to be applied.
In countries where the Commission has no external office, for example insomeEFTAcountries, contactsarearrangedatleastonceayearbetween
the Information Counsellors in Member States* missions and an official of the Commission's information services.
Similar arrangements are made for the Delegates in ACP countries.
Following a meeting in February 1977 of senior Foreign Ministry information officials arrangements were made for Member States1 missions to draw on back­
ground material available from the Commission services, and there are other
possibilitiesofcooperationinthefieldofinformation. Thesearrangements are set out in three Council notes.
The Commission believes that cooperation in this field should now be
reviewed in the light of experience, with a view to holding a further meeting towards the end of 1978 of senior information officials of Member States and the Commission.
2) docs E/874/77 . (AO 28) and Tl/lOAl/ll (AG 33)
The Council adopted on 8 November 1976 a resolution concerning the coordination and harmonisation of development policies in the Community. This provided for the reinforcing of existing cooperation of Member States* representativesandtheCommissiondelegatesinACPcountries. Afurther resolution was adopted on 28 November 1977 which invited the Commission to extend its activities of coordination, which should be organized in a more systematic way.
These resolutions should be applied to all countries in which the Commission has external offices primarily concerned with the execution of cooperation agreements.
In third countries in which the Commission is not represented the essential problem is one of informing the Embassies of Member States of Community policies.
In a letter dated 22 November 1974 to Mr. Burin des Roziers , President of the Committee of Permanent Representatives, Sir Christopher Soames and Mr. Cheysson underlined the need to provide Member States* missions with more information on C.ommunity policy and decisions.
On 13 October 1975? "the Council adopted a procedure to inform Member States* missions, after each Council meeting, of Council decisions which concern them. Experience has shown that information supplied in accordance with this procedure is not adequate for the needs expressed by the Embassies themselves.
"Die Commission suggests that the Council should review the operation of this system in the light of experience gained since 1975.
There is no comparable system for informing Member States® missions ofCommissiondecisionswhichaffectthem. TheCouncil'sdecisionof13
October 1975 stipulated that after a trial period of the system of information on Council decisions, the question of information on Commission decisions shouldbeexamined. Thetimehascometotakeupthisquestion.
3« Posting of Commission officials to certain non-Comaunity countries
The Commission has been made aware of an increasing need for the Community viewpoint to be represented as such in some important non- Community countries, where the Commission itself is not represented. A recent example of this is Australia*
The Commission has no intention of meeting this need by setting up
an external office in each of the countries in question. Instead, the
Commission would propose individual postings so that, for limited periods, and in
response to specific needs, an official who could be attached, for example, to the
EinbassyoftheMemberStateholdingthepresidency. Hisdutieswouldbe
to ensure the direct supply of Member States' missions with the necessary
information about Community policy,* he could also assist on-the-spot coordination .
The Commission intends to discuss further the practical implications of this suggestion with the Council and with Member States*
The Commission will follow with great interest the progress of studies at present under way in Member States to rationalise their external
representation. TheCommissionwouldbeinterestedinbenefitingfromthe fruits of this exercise.
PART TWO - Internal administration of the different kinds of external office-;
1. Conditions of employment a) Introduction
The Regulations and Rules applicable to officials and other Servants oftheEuropeanCommunitieslaydown, justastheydoforheadquartersstaff,
the conditions of employment for officials and local staff subject to those Regulationsintheexternaloffices. IHieseconditionsvaryaccordingto
theplaceofemployment. Nevertheless,certainspecialmanagementprocedures have been set up, as for example the systems of inspection and rotation mentioned below.
Internal directives concerning payment of allowances and the refunding of expenses have also been adopted to take into account the speoial nature oftheexternaloffices. Furtheradaptations,whichmayrequirerevision of the Staff Regulations, are currently being considered for possible future presentation to the Council.
In the external offices the Commission employs two broad categories
of staff, Community officials posted from Brussels end local officers who
may be engaged for duties at all levels, lfce latter*s conditions of employment are fixed by the Commission in conformity with the Rules applicable to other servants of the European Communities, and are identical except in the areas which vary according to the post, i.e. salaries and social security.
Changes in the terms of employment of local officers in the noi>-EAC external offices should be introduced to ensure the greatest possible flexibility in their recruitment and to improve relations with the Central Staff Committee and the local committees.
The external offices run by the EAC employ three categories of staff. The
first category is composed of the Delegates themselves, who will be either officials (in the Maghreb, Mashrek and Israel) or, progressively, temporary Commission employees (in the ACP countries). The second category is mainly composed of advisers and technical employees, who are and should remain non–established because of the technical nature of their duties and the mobility required. The third category comprises local staff, who come under the labour laws of the country of employment, recruited by the Delegate for service tasks(ushers, drivers, guards, domestic staff and secretaries).
The rules governing employment by the EA.C were specifically drawn up for the purpose, and have a more flexible procedure for adaptation in
Moreover, the Commission is sending to the Council a draft reform
of the status of the EAC which would ret up a public agency under Community law. Thisreformwouldalsoencouragegreaterconvergencebetweentheterms of employment and salary of EAC officials and those subject to the Staff Regulations. ThefollowingaccountofthepositionofEACstaffrefers therefore to the present, unreformed, situation.
The terms of employment of EAC officials are subject to Belgian labour legislation. Theirstandingiscontractual,notstatutoryorsubjectto regulation as is the case with Commission officials.
The contract between the official and the EAC is governed by the "general and special provisions and the Regulation on the administrative Rlgime",acopyofwhichhereceivesonengagement. Thesedocumentsset outtheofficial'srightsanddutiesforthedurationofhiscontract. They are reproduced and explained in detail in the document "Collection of texts and instructions for the management of contracts with officials employed abroad", the latest edition of which was issued in December 1977. In addition, the official is given a mandate which defines his duties. This mandate is given by the Commission in the case of an official serving in
a delegation, and by the national authorities in the case of a Technical assistance official.
(b) Salaries and currency for payments
The basic objective of the salary provisions in the Staff Rnfiul^tiona is to ensure, by means of weighting allowances, equivalent purchasing power regardlessofthecountryinwhichtheofficialisposted. Tooaleulate the allowances, the Commission makes as much ti.se as possible of statistics available from international organizations such as the UN and i.ne OECD. However, the Statistical Office of the European Communities remains
responsibleforcontroloverthestatisticsused. Technically,the characteristics of the salary system are that it is based on a single pay scale expressed in Belgian francs (soon to become European Units of Account (HJA) and adjusted by geographical weighting allowances. These weighting allowances are founded largely on calculations of the cost of living in the various places of work and allow for payment to be made in the local currency.
The Staff Regulations (Article 63) provide for payment normally in the currency of the country to which an official is posted. Recognising
that officials also have obligations, or purchasing needs, elsewhere than the country of posting, the Regulations (Article 17 of Annex VII) also providefortransfersofsalaryintoothercurrencies. Thissystemwill henceforward be based on the EUA, which will diminish a series of problems which have arisen with the now outdated UA. Moreover under a Commission proposal currently being approved by the Council this provision is being up-dated to meet modem monetary conditions so that weighting allowances used for the transferred part of the salary reflect economic conditions (price levels) in the country to which the transfer is made.
This modification of the transfer article also makes possible some
greater flexibility in its use in a way to be agreed by the Community Institutions. Until now the Commission has limited the proportion of salary transferred to a m^TiTmimof35$. Itisrecognizedhoweverthatinmanynon-industrialised countries outside the European Communities, local facilities provide inadequately forthepurchasesrequiredtomaintainaEuropeanlife–style. Inthesecases
it is proposed to raise the present ceiling and make a higher proportion,
according to circumstances, payable in European currency, with a weighting allowance varying according to the Community country
inwhichpaymentismade. Theintentiontodothishasalreadybeenmentioned
to the Staff Regulations Group of the Council, who have asked that all the transfer regulations, which are at present the subject of informal rules, should be agreed
betweentheInstitutions. Therequiredcommon.agreementdocument!•nowbeing prepared within the Commission.
A number of difficulties have indeed arisen in the application of the Staff Regulations in the external offices. Solutions have
however been found for specific problems, and the situation will be further improved by the introduction of the EUA and the transfer provisionsdescribedabove. Tosumup,thiscompletionofthesalary- system for external offices should, if correctly implemented, maintain the overall objective of equivalence in purchasing power by applying weighting allowances that sure appropriate to the country in which an official should normally "be expected to spend or deposit various proportionsofhissalary. Ifdifficultiesoccuramoreradicalsolution would have to be considered involving a probably controversial Statute revision designed to operate a different salary system for officials when they are in external offices from that which they have at Headquarters.
The different system used by the EAC provides for
- salary fixed in Belgian francs and paid in the same currency into a
- an overseas allowance which represents 20% to 30$ of total emoluments.
The allowance is expressed and paid in the currency of the country in whichtheemployeeisposted, andvariesinaccordancewiththelocal cost of living as established in the U.N« statistics.
The EAC system therefore does not give rise to questions on the rate of exchange for the overseas allowance.
In most cases there is no reason for applying the Staff Regulations differently as between Headquarters staff and externally posted staff.
For example the pensions system (maximum pension 70$ of final basic salary after 35 years of service) is equally applicable wherever the years of servicehavebeenaccomplished. Itisgenerallyconsideredtobeagood
schemeasarethoseforwidows'andorphans*pensions. Anydetailed improvements made in future (e.g., better benefits for early retirement)
would be of general interest and not just to external staff.
 Arrangements for reimbursing medical expenses may on the other hand needadaptationaccordingtotheplaceofwork. Theschemeisinconsequence applied flexibly so that the usual 80$ limit on reimbursement Is not maintained
in countries where the cost of medical treatment is particularly high*
The EAG official's contract provides for a group insurance "sickness– accident" and "pension", which covers the staff against social risks.
«$ The pension insurance is taken out with the OSSOM (Offioe de Securite
Sociale d'Outre-Mer) for permanent contracts, or with the Societe AO de Trieste
for fixed-term oontracts. The insurance includes retirement and widow's
pension, orphan's pension, allowance for incapacity and a deferred insurance for health care.
The OSSOM regime is at present indexed to the cost of living in Belgium. Contributions are 13.50$ for the employer and 6.75$ for the employee.
A sickness–accident insurance policy taken out by the EAC with the Cie
Van Breda covers the medical expenses of the official and his wife and dependents, for 100$ except in exceptional cases for which there are ceilings; temporary incapacity.of the official through sickness; medical care, incapacity, invalidity and death from accident of the official and his family.
Some risks current overseas are covered e.g. repatriation expenses, civil war, riot eto.
ITo contribution is made by the official.
Hie Regulations for payment of educational allowances also provide for the case of Community Staff posted away from Headquarters in that educational
expenses up to double the normal limit may where justified be paid where the place of work has neither a European school nor a school using the language appropriateforthechild. Themaximumisatpresent6,186FB,plusweighting allowance, permonth-perchild. Bywayofexamplethiscurrentlygivesstaff
in Washington a maximum of 7-856 FB per child.
EAC regulations provide for the reimbursement of education fees and charges up to a ceiling of 2000 FB per month for children eduoated overseas accompanying their parents and 5000 FB per month for children remaining behind to complete their education in Europe*
The Commission has introduced a system of fixed entertainment allowances for its external offices outside the Member States, The allowances are grantedannually. Thosewhoreceivethemarerequiredtomakesix-monthly reportsontheusetheymakeoftheallowances. Anobjectiveofthesystem which has certainly been realised was to create a certain degree of harmony between offices, where there had previously been a mixture of fixed allowances and other reimbursement arrangements.
The EAC system provides that only the Delegates have their entertaining expenses refunded, although the general provisions provide for exceptions
tobemade(art.58)• Thispossibilityisnotinfactmadeuseofforthe benefit of the other officials.
The allowance has a ceiling fixed for each year according to the country concerned. Theceilingisindicatedinthecontract. Atpresentitvaries between 2.500 ELJA and 4.500 EUA.
Partofthisfixedamount(lessthan50$)ispaidinalumpsum. The remainder is subject to prior authorization and must be accounted for.
For exceptional entertainment (for example the visit of a Member of the Commission), expenditure above the ceiling can be authorised.
The weighting allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations normally includesanelementforrent. Thisimpliesthatnofurtherallowanceshould
be granted purely for.basic accommodation.
 Nevertheless, the Commission may support a part of accommodation expenses either when the official ia required to provide regular official entertainment in his residence, or if he is posted In a country in which housing conditions are exceptionally difficult.
Grants of accommodation expenses are made according to a fixed procedure of calculation which has given reasonable satisfaction.
The EAC provides its officials with furnished accommodation suited to thdr.professional and family situation.
Air conditioners are supplied (aocording to the composition of the family) if the climate justifies it, which is almost always the case in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.
The EAC pays a part of the cost of electricity for air conditioning (400kwhpermonthperairconditioningunit). Onlythedelegatessure
refunded the full cost of electricity.
– Provision of officiai accommodation
For the Offices and Delegations of the "classical" type, the Commission hires and furnishes office accommodation.
The only purchases of buildings or apartments were made before the amalgamation of the Executives with ECSC funds (Paris, London and Montevideo).
The Commission does not purchase or rent accommodation for its officials, exeept for the official residences at Washington or Ottawa which are Commission
property. TheCommissionmakesareasonablecontributiontothefurnishing of reception rooms in the residences of Heads of Delegation.
The EAC hires accommodation and furnishes it.
If no accommodation is to be hired locally, an attempt is made to arrange with the government of the host country to build with EDF finanoe.
The first arrangement made on these lines provides for putting a site at the Commission's disposal, transferring the ownership of the buildings to the Government when building is completed, and making the offices available to the Delegation free of charge for the duration of the EDP,s activities in the country.
The Commission intends to continue to rent accommodation for its Offices andDelegations. Onlyinexceptionalcases,orwhenthelocalpropertymarket
makes it impossible or uneconomic , will the purchase of accommodation be considered.
As regards private accommodation for officials, a distinction should be made between the situation in developing countries and that in countries where the standard of living is comparable to the Community's.
In the former the policy of the EA.C is justified and should be continued.
In countries with a high standard of living, the Commission should only intervene in exceptional cases where the local situation is especially difficult, whether because of a shortage of suitable accommodation or because of rents out of proportion with the cost of purchasing.
In their daily working relationship with the external offices the Commission services keep a permanent check on their work by means of written reports and duty trips.
In addition, all external offices, like other Commission services, are subjecttochecksbyFinancialControl. Bydecisionof20December1975»the Commission instructed Financial Control to inspect on the spot the way in which Heads of external offices in ACP countries perform internal administrative and financial duties in their offices.
On 25 July 1975 "the Commission decided to set tip an inspection team, whose members would vary according to the nature of the post to be inspected. The inspections carried out by this team, which form part of the general programme reviewing the operation and organization of the Commission's services, are designed to review the duties of the post and the staff and equipment at its disposal and to check on the spot on financial management*
The Commission adopts its inspection programme at the beginning of each year.
Pour inspections of offices (Ankara, Ottawa, Bonn and London) have so farbeenmade,thelastofthemduringNovember1977• Theseweredesigned
aspilotinspections. Areportsummarisingtheirresultsandmaking recommendations for the future was prepared in February 1978.
For the Commission's external offices in ACP countries, in addition
to the permanent check by Commission services and the overall responsibility of Financial Control mentioned above, the European Association for Cooperation
(EAC) can inspect offices on the spot to check their management of aid agreements and in general their operating conditions.
The following missions have been carried out l?y the competent services to inspect delegations in the ACP countries.
a) joint missions of the Financial Control and the responsible service to Senegal and Ivory Coast in 1976, Surinam, IXitch West Indies, Cameroon and Chad in 1977; probably Zaire, Mali, Togo and Benin in 1978.
InaccordancewiththeCommission'sdecisionof20[December19751 these missions were designed to inspect the delegation's control methods and the conditions of financial and technical execution of the projects and progr&arr.-s
financed by the EDF.
b) missions of financial inspection by EAC to Ghana, Upper Volta, Mali andNigeriain1977andprobablyZambia, TanzaniaandtheSudanin1978.
These missions were designed to check the post accounts on the spot. /
A system of rotation for Commission officials to delegations in third countries has been introduced by the Commission, in parellel td a system of internal mobility.
This system is designed to give officials breadth of experience while ensuring that external representation is carried out by officials with experience of work in the Commission's headquarters, as well as to make possible the posting to external offices of officials from services other than those principally concerned with external relations.
The system applies to A, B and C officials. Special consideration is given to management and personal problems, particularly in the two latter cases. !Hie system operates by means of regular consideration of fresh postijpgs for all officials who have been in posts abroad for 3 years or
more on the basis that a posting is normally for 3 years but that this can be extended for up to three further years. The first new postings under this system will take place in 1978.
The ensemble of EAC expatriate overseas personnel are rotated on an ad hoc basis dependent on the requirements of the service about once every four years.
In order to encourage the mobility of Commission officials and their interpenetration with the staff of EAC, the Commission had asked the Council
for 34 posts in the 1977 Budget. The Council stipulated that the execution
of this operation would be conditional on settling various political , financial and staff status questions. The explanations requested have been sent
to the Council in the form of a working paper. This paper is designed
to enable the Council's deoision of 23 November 1976 to create 34 new
posts to be put into effect. It reviews the political, statutory and finanoial aspects of the exercise.
The Commission does not believe that the existence of two systems
for mapaging its relations with its external offices, which differ in some
respeots as the foregoing account makes clear, presents in itself an obstacletoefficientoperation* ItistheCommission'spolicytofind solutionsforproblemsastheyarise. Nevertheless,theCommissionis keeping the situation under review, with a view to making farther progress in achieving convergence between the differing arrangements.
 On 13 October 1975. the Council adopted asan A point the following decision (see doc. i^2329/l/75 (AO 52 rev. l) t
Immediately after each Council meeting the General Secretariat of the Council would draw up, under the responsibility of the Presidency, a draft telex providing information for the countries concerned by the Decision* Thisdraftwouldthenbeforwardedtothedelegationsfor approval.
" Ifnocommentswerereceivedfromanydelegationwithin24hours, the telex would be considered approved and sent by the Presidency to its Etabassy/Etobassies in the country/countries concerned.
At the end of the telex, the Qnbassy of the country holding the Presidency would be asked to forward the telex to the Bnbassies of the other Member States so that decisions taken might be submitted in co­ ordinated form to the local authorities concerned and to the public.
The above system would be tested for an experimental period and- re^riewed in the light of results.
The question of information on Commission decisions will be examined in due course.
- Results of special Chefs de Cabinet's meeting, Wednesday 1 March 1978
The attached text supersedes C0M(78) 66/2# Hie Annex to the initial report remains unchanged.
I. Considération of tert
It was agreed to recommend, subject to the observations below, that the M' il''
Commission should: ι-
(i) approve the communication on external representation from the President, Mr
Haferkamp, Mr Cheysson and Mr Tugendhat^ aa amended by the Chefs de '
Cabinet^ which is annexed to this report { 11
(ii) take jijs jleoision to forward it to the Counoil and the European Parliament (iii) instruct $n interdepartmental working party oomposed of representatives
from the Secretariat-General and DCs I , Till , IX , X-Spokesman's Qroup and XX, which could if need be call in other departments, to oonsider how the
various methods used by the Commission for purposes of its relations with
the offioes abroad could be brought oloser together)
(iv) ask the Members of the Commission most olosely oonoerned to supervise the
work of the interdepartmental working pax-y, organizing for the purpose
meetingsbetween their representatives and the working party* than three such meetings a year should be held}
(v) ask the Members of the Commission most closely oonoerned to submit a
work programme for the working party to the Commission by 30 April 1978 , taking into account the work already aocomplished on the subjeot *
II, Points for the attention of the Commission
(i) It was agreed to draw the Commission's attention to the suggestions made in Part I of the communication (particularly in items 2 and 3» pages 3 and 4) for increased oooperation with the Member States' diplomatio miaaion*in third countries to channel information on the Commission's j;
decisions and to enable , in certain oiroumstances , a Commission official ■, ν
to be posted for a fixed period , to meet speoifio needs , to the Embassy ■ of a Member State, for example, the Embassy of the oountry holding the Presidency ,
Soma of the Chefa de Cabinet feared that such arrangements might have dis­ advantages, particularly for the expansion of the Commission's own offices abroad.
It was agreed to draw the Commission*s attention to the detailed, comparative description of the two types of arrangements for offices abroad oontained in
Part II of the Communication. The description given is purely factual, the only inference suggested at this stage being that the various provisions needed to be brought progressively oloser together.
Aware of the dangers in presenting the natter this way, the Chefs de Cabinet agreed to suggest that the Commission instruct its representatives at the Council meeting to oppose any discussion of the respective merits of the arrangements until the Commission had informed the Council of its own thinking on the subject and the possible oonolusions to be drawn.
A number of the Chefs de Cabinet also aaid that the Council should be given a
circumstantial description, explaining how the provisions for the various arrangements actually worked.
The Chefs de Cabinet made a point of drawing the Commission's attention to the temporary nature of the present situation regarding external representation*
The principle^ referred to above and already approved by the Commission, is that
these arrangements are to be brought oloser into line, it being understood that,
in the meantime, their practical implementation migfrt still differ and give rise to some difficulties.
The Chefs de Cabinet agreed to reoommend that the Chefs de Cabinet note this situation and take it into account when presenting its position to the Community authorities and the public and when organising the activities of the interdepart­
mental working party responsible for considering how greater convergence could be achieved (see I (ii) a) above).
,(lvN In view of the various implications of the communication to the Counoil, it was agreed to suggest that the Commission forward it, with the general communication
(External Representation - Medium-Term Policy (COM(77) 368 final)to the appropriate European Parliament Committees for information (See item I (ii) above).
On th« natter of rotation (item 3, page14), Mr Haferkanp's Chef do Cabinet, while
not questioning the statements made in the communication, said that his Commissioner reserved the right to reoommend a different system if rotation did not prove feasible.
It was agreed to reoommend, subjeot to the observations in items II and III above,
that the Commission approve the communication from the President, Mr.Haferkamp, | HP Cheysson and Mr Tugendhat in the form shown in the Annex,
(Communication from the Commission to the Council)
On 22 July 1977 the Commission sent to the Council a Communication on External Representation – medium term policy (doc. COM(77) 368 final) . At that time the Commission undertook to present a further paper to the Councilwhichwouldgointomoredetail* Thepresentpaperisintended to fulfil that undertaking.
The first part of the paper discusses ways of strengthening cooperation between the Commission's offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States, The second concerns measures the Commission itself proposes to take to bring about greater harmonization of the internal administration of the different kinds of external offices.
PART ONE – Cooperation between the Commission's external offices and the diplomatic missions of Member States
In view of the increasing weight in world affairs of the Community as
an entity, it is important that the diplomatic representatives of Member States in non-Community countries, as well as the representatives of the Commission, should be in a position to projeot a coordinated picture of Communitypolicy. Thisisequallyimportantinthemanycountriesinwhich theCommissionisnotrepresented. TheCommissionbelievesthatthemachinery for coordination should be strengthened and the supply of information improved.
In those third countries in which the Commission is represented effective cooperation is increasingly taking place in practice at all levels ,
including the participation of the Heads of the Commission's Offices in the regular meetings of the Ambassadors of Member States.
On 17 April 1973 the Council adopted a text concerning the procedure
for the preparation, transmission and use of reports from the Commercial Counsellors of diplomatic missions of Member States in non-EEC countries.
The inclusion of the Commission's external offices in this procedure was
not envisaged at the time, but there has since grown up good practical cooperationbetweenexternalofficesandmissions. Theexternaloffloes
take part in the meetings of the Commercial Counsellors and supply information on Community policies bearing on common commercial policy and the application of cooperation agreements.
 It would be advisable if this informal collaboration could be made offioial by the Counoil.
Information Counsellors prepare reports according to a procedure similar
tothatapplicableinthecaseofCommercialCounsellors. Furthermore,in accordance with a Council decision of 31 January 1972^ , as confirmed by a
Council decision of 3 May 1977
Office of the Commission takes part in meetings of Information Counsellors
andhelpstodraftthereports, EachreportreceivesareplyfromtheCouncil, whichisdraftedbytheservicesoftheCommission. Thesedirectivesshould continue to be applied.
In countries where the' Commission has no external office, for example in some EFTA countries , contacts are arranged at least once a year between the Information Counsellors in Member States' missions and an official of the Commission's information services.
Similar arrangements are made for the Delegates in ACP countries.
Following a meeting in February 1977 of senior Foreign Ministry information officials arrangements were made for Member States' missions to draw on back­ ground material available from the Commission services, and there are other possibilities of cooperation in the field of information. These arrangements are set out in three Council notes.
The Commission believes that cooperation in this field should now be reviewed in the light of experience, with a view to holding a further meeting towards the end of 1978 of senior information officials of Member States and the Commission.
(2) doca W874/7.7 . (AG 28) and ^B/1l041/77 (AG 33)
» the Head of the Press and Information
The Council adopted on 8 November 1976 a resolution concerning the coordination and harmonisation of development policies in the Community. This provided for the reinforcing of existing cooperation of Member States? representatives and the Commission delegates in ACP countries. A further resolution was adopted on 28 November 1977 which invited the Commission to extend its activities of coordination, which should be organized in a more systematic way.
These resolutions should be applied to all countries in which the Commission has external offices primarily concerned with the execution of cooperation agreements.
In third countries in which the Commission is not represented the essential problem is one of informing the Einbassies of Member States of Community policies.
In a letter dated 22 November 1974 to Mr. Burin des Roziers , President of the Committee of Permanent Representatives, Sir Christopher Soames and Mr. Cheysson underlined the need to provide Member States' missions with more information on Community policy and decisions.
On 13 October 1975» the Council adopted a procedure to inform Member States9 missions, after each Council meeting, of Council decisions which concern them. Experience has shown that information supplied in accordance with this procedure is not adequate for the needs expressed by the Embassies themselves.
•Hie Commission suggests that the Council should review the operation of this system in the light of experience gained since 1975•
There is no oomparable system for informing Member States* missions of Commission decisions which affeot them. The Council's decision of 13
October 1975 stipulated that after a trial period of the system of inf <rniatio: onCouncildecisions,thequestionofinformationonCommissiondec:* '.ons should be examined. The time has come to take up this question.
3. Posting of Commission officials "to certain non-Community countries
The Commission has been made ©wars of an increasing need for the ν
Community viswpoirt to bs represented as such in some important non- Comaiuriity countries , where fcho Comisaion itself is not represented .
A recent example of this is Australia?
The Conmissiori has no intention of meeting this need by setting up
an external o:?fir<3 in each of the countries in question. Instead, the
Commission would propose individual postings so that, for limited periods, and in
response to specific needs , an official could be attached, • for example , to the
Embassy of the Mouiber State holding the presidency. His duties would be
to ensure th^ direct supply of Member States* missions with the necessary
information about Coeanunity policy* he could also assist on-the-spot coordination .
...is Commission intends to discuss further the praotical implications of this suggestion with the Council and with Member States.
Hie Commission will follow with great interest the progress of studies at present under way in Member States to rationalise their external
■ representation. The Commission would be Interested in benefiting from the fruits of this exercise.
PAR? WO - Internal administration of the different kinds of external offices
• Conditions of employment a) Introduction
'Hie Regulations and Rules applicable to officials and other Servants
of the European Coiracm.itie3 lay down, just as they do for headquarters staff, %
 the conditions of employment for officials and local staff subject to those Regulationsintheexternaloffices. Theseconditionsvaryaccordingto
theplaceofemployment. Nevertheless,certainspecialmanagementprocedures have "been set up, as for example the systems of inspection and rotation mentioned below.
Internal directives concerning payment of allowances and the refunding of expenses have also "been adopted to take into account the speoial nature of the externa,1 offices* Farther adaptations, which may require revision of the Staff Regulations, are currently being considered for possible future presentation to the Council.
In the external offices the Commission employs two broad categories
of staff, Community officials posted from Brussels and local officers who
may be engaged for duties at all levels. "Rie latter*s conditions of employment are fixed by the Commission in conformity with the Rules applicable to other servants of the European Communities, and are identical except in the areas which vary according to the post, i.e. salaries and social security.
Changes in the terms of employment of local officers in the non-EAC external offices should be introduced to ensure the greatest possible flexibility in their recruitment and to improve relations with the Central Staff Committee and the local committees.
The external offices run by the EAC employ three categories of staff. The first category is composed of the Delegates themselves, who will be either official (in the Maghreb, Mashrek and Israel) or, progressively, temporary Commission employ
(in the ACP countries). The second category is mainly composed of advisers and technical employees, who are and should remain non–established because of the technical nature of their duties and the mobility required . The third' category comprises local staff, who come under the labour laws of the country of employnert, recruited by the Delegate for servioe tasks(ushers, drivers, guards, domestic staff and secretaries).
The rules governing employment by the EAC were specifically drawn up for the purpose, and have a more flexible prooedurs for adaptation in
Moreover, the Commission is sending to the Council a draft reform
of the status of the EAC which would set up a public agency under Community law. This reform would also encourage greater convergence between the terms of employment and salary of EAC officials and those subject to the Staff Regulations. ThefollowingaccountofthepositionofEACstaffrefers therefore to the present, unreformed, situation.
The terms of employment of EAC officials are subject to Belgian labour legislation. Theirstandingiscontractual,notstatutoryorsubjectto regulation as is the case with Commission officials.
The contract between the official and the EAC is governed by the "general and special provisions and the Regulation on the administrative Regime", a copy of which he receives on engagement . These documents set
out the official 's rights and duties for the duration of his contract . They , are re- roduced and explained in detail in the document "Collection of texts and instructions for the management of contracts with officials employed abroad",thelatesteditionofwhichwasissuedinDecember1977* In addition, th9 official is given a mandate which defines his duties. This mandate is given by the Commission in the case of an official serving in
a delegation, and by the national authorities in the case of a Technical assistance official.
(b) Salaries and currency for payments
The basic objective of the salary provisions in the Staff Regulations is to ensure, by means of weighting allowances, equivalent purchasing power regardlessofthecountryinwhichtheofficialisposted. Tocalculate the allowances, the Commission makes as much use as possible of statistics available from international organizations such as the UN and the OSCD. However, the Statistical Offioe of the European Communities remains
 responsible for control over the statistics used. Technically, the ' characteristics of the salary system are that it is based on a single pay scale expressed in Belgian franos (soon to become European Units of Account (EUA) and adjusted by geographical weighting allowances. These weighting allowances are founded largely on calculations of the cost of living in the various places of work and allow for payment to be made in the local currency.
The Staff Regulations (Article 63) provide for payment normally in the currency of the country to which an official is posted. Reoognising
that officials also have obligations , or purchasing needs , elsewhere than the country of posting, the Regulations (Article 17 of Annex VII) also provide for transfers of salary into other currencies. This system will henceforward be based on the ELFA, which will diminish a series of problems which have arisen with the now outdated UA. Moreover under a Commission proposal currently being approved by the Council this provision is being up-dated to meet modern monetary conditions so that weighting allowances
used for the transferred part of the salary reflect economic conditions (price levels ) in the country to which the transfer is made .
This modification of the transfer article also makes possible some
greater flexibility in its use in a way to be agreed by the Community Institutions. Until now the Commission has limited the proportion of salary transferred to a maximum of 35$. It is recognized however that in many non-industrialised
countries outside the European Communities, local facilities provide inadequately for the purchases required to maintain a European life–style. In these cases
it is proposed to raise the present ceiling and make a higher proportion, according to circumstances , payable in European currency , with
a weighting allowance varying according to the Community country
in which payment is made. The intention to do this has already been mentioned
to the Staff Regulations Group of the Council, who have asked that all the transfer regulations, which are at present the subject of informal rules, should be agreed
between the Institutions. ^ required common agreement document ia no-., beins prepared within the Commission.
 A number of difficulties have indeed arisen in the application of the Staff Regulations in the external offices. Solutions hav9 however been found for speoifio problems, and the situation will be further improved by the introduction of the EUA and the transfer provisionsdescribedabove. Tosumup,thiscompletionofthesalary system for external offices should, if correctly implemented, maintain the overall objective of equivalence in purchasing power by applying
weighting allowances that are appropriate to the country in which an official should normally be expected to spend or deposit various proportions of his salary, If difficulties occur a more radical solution would have to be considered involving a probably controversial Statute revision designed to operate a different salary system for officials when they are in external offices from that which they have at Headquarters .
The different system used by the EAC provides for
- salary fixed in Belgian francs and paid in the same currency into a
– an overseas allowance which represents 20% to 2>0% of total emoluments.
The allowance is expressed and paid in the currency of the oountry in which the employee is posted, and varies in accordance with the local cost of living as established in the U.N. statistics.
The EAC system therefore does not give rise to questions on the rate of exchange for the overseas allowance. '
In most cases there is no reason for applying the Staff Reflations differently as between Headquarters staff and externally posted staff.
For example the pensions system (maximum pension 70% of final basic salary after 35 years of servioe) is equally applicable wherever the years of service have been accomplished. It is generally considered to be a good schemeasarethoseforwidows*andorphans*pensions. Anydetailed
improvements made in future (e.g., better benefits for early retirement) would be of general interest and not just to external staff.
 Arrangements for reimbursing medxcal expenses may on the other hand
need, adaptation according to the place of work. Ttia scheme is in consequence applied flexibly so that the usual 80$ limit on reimbursement is not maintainor in countries where the cost of medical treatment is particularly high.
The EAC official's contract provides for a group insurance "sickness~ accident" and "pension", which covers the staff against social risks.
The pension insurance is taken out with the OSSOM (Office de Securite Sociale d'Outre–Mer) for permanent contracts, or with the Societe AG de Trieste, for fixedr-term contracts. The insurance includes retirement and widow's pension, orphan's pension, allowance for incapacity and a deferred insurance for health care.
The OSSOM regime is at present indexed to the cost of living in Belgium. Contributions are 13-50$ for the employer and 6.75$ for the employee.
A sickness–accident insurance policy taken out by the EAC with the Cie
Van Breda covers the medical expenses of the official and his wife and dependents, for 100$ except in exceptional cases for which there are ceilings; temporary incapacity of the official through sickness; medical care, incapacity, invalidity and death from aocident of the official and his family.
: Some risks current overseas are covered e.g. repatriation expenses , civil war, riot eto.
No contribution is made by the official#
The Regulations for payment of educational allowances also provide for the case of Community Staff posted away from Headquarters in that educational expenses up to double the normal limit may where justified be paid where the place of work has neither a European school nor a school using the language appropriateforthechild. Themaximumisatpresent6,186FB,plusweighting allowance,permonthperchild* Bywayofexamplethiscurrentlygive staff in Washington a maximum of 7*856 FB per child.
 EAC regulations provide for the reimbursement of education fees and charges up to a ceiling of 2000 FB per month for children educated overseas
accompanying their parents and 5000 PB per month for children remaining behind to complete their education in Europe.
The Commission has introduced a system of fixed entertainment allowances for its external offices outside the Member States. The allowances are grantedannually. Thosewhoreceivethemarerequiredtomakesix-monthly reportsontheusetheymakeoftheallowances. Anobjectiveofthesystem which has certainly been realised was to create a certain degree of harmony between offices, where there had previously been a mixture of fixed allowances and other reimbursement arrangements.
The EAC system provides that only the Delegates have their entertaining expenses refunded, although the general provisions provide for exceptions tobemade(art.58). Thispossibilityisnotinfactmadeuseofforthe benefit of the other officials.
The allowance has a ceiling fixed for each year according to the country concerned. Theceilingisindicatedinthecontraot. Atpresentitvaries between 2.500 IDA and 4*500 EUA.
Partofthisfixedamount(lessthan50$)ispaidinalumpsum. The remainder is subject to prior authorization and must be accounted for.
For exceptional entertainment (for example the visit of a Member of the Commission), expenditure above the ceiling can be authorized.
The weighting allowance provided for in the Staff Regulations normally includesanelementforrent. Thisimpliesthatnofurtherallowanceshould be granted purely for basic accommodation.
 nevertheless, the Commission may support a part of accommodation expenses either when the official is required to provide regular official entertainment in his residence, or if he is posted in a country in whioh
housing conditions are exceptionally difficult.
Grants of accommodation expenses are made according to a fixed prooedure of calculation which has given reasonable satisfaction.
The EAC provides its officials with furnished accommodation suited to their.professional and family situation.
Air conditioners are supplied (aocording to the composition of the family) if the olimate justifies it, which is almost always the case in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.
The EAC pays a part of the cost of electricity for air conditioning (400 kwh per month per air conditioning unit)* Only the delegates are
refunded the full cost of electricity.
– Provision of officiai accommodation (i) Present situation
For the Offices and Delegations of the "classical" type, the Commission hires and famishes office' accommodation.
The only purchases of buildings or apartments were made before tho amalgamation of the Executives with ECSC funds (Paris, London and Montevideo).
The Commission does not purchase or rent accommodation for its officials, except for the official residences at Washington or Ottawa which are Commission property. The Commission makes a reasonable contribution to the furnishing
of reception rooms in the residences of Heads of Delegation.
The EAC hires accommodation and furnishes it .
 If no accommodation is to be hired locally, an attempt is made to arrange with the government of the host country to build with EDF finance.
The first arrangement made on these lines provides for putting a site at the Commission's disposal, transferring tha ownership of the buildings to the
Government when building is completed, and making the offices available to the • Delegation free of charge for the duration of the EDP'a activities in the country .
The Commission intends to continue to rent accommodation for its Offices
and Delegations. Only in exceptional cases, or when the local property market makes it impossible or uneconomic, will the purchase of accommodation be considered .
As regards private accommodation for officials, a distinction should be made between the situation in developing countries and that in countries whore the standard of living is comparable to the Community's.
In the former the policy of the EA.C is justified and should be continued.
In countries with a high standard of living, the Commission should only intervene in exceptional cases where the local situation is especially difficult, whether because of a shortage of suitable accommodation or because of rents out of proportion with the cost of purchasing.
In their daily working relationship with the external offices the " Commission services keep a permanent check on their work by means of written reports and duty trips.
In addition , all external offices , like other Commission services , are subject to checks by Financial Control. By decision of 20 December 1975i the Commission instructed Financial Control to inspeot on the spot the way in which Heads of external offices in ACP countries perform internal administrative and finanoial duties in their offioes .
On 25 July 1975 "the Commission decided to set up an inspection team, whose members would vary according to the nature of the post to be inspected. The inspections carried out "by this team, which form part of the general programme for reviewing the operation and organization of the Commission5a services, are designed to review the duties of the post and the staff and equipment at its disposal and to check on the spot on financial management.
The Commission adopts its inspection programme at the beginning of each year.
Pour inspections of offices (Ankara, Ottawa, Bonn and London) have so
far been made, the last of them during November 1977* These were designed aspilotinspections. Areportsummarisingtheirresultsandmaking recommendations for the future was prepared in February 1979.
For the Commission's external offioes in ACP countries, in addition
to the permanent check by Commission services and the overall responsibility of Financial Control mentioned above, the European Association for Cooperation
(EAC) can inspect offices on the spot to oheck their management of aid agreements and in general their operating conditions .
The following missions have been carried out "ty the competent services to inspect delegations in the ACP countries.
a) joint missions of the Financial Control and the responsible service to Senegal and Ivory Coast in 1976, Surinam, Dutch West Indies, Cameroon and Chad in 1977? probably Zaire, Mali, Togo and Benin in 1978.
In accordance with the Commission's decision of 20 December 1975» these missions were designed to inspect the delegation's control methods and the conditions of financial and technical execution of the projects and prograinnos finanoed "by the EDF.
b) missions of financial inspection by EAC to Ghana, Upper Volta, Mali and Nigeria in 1977 and probably Zambia, Tanzania and the Sudan in 197;^«
These missions were designed to oheck the post aocounts on the spot. * ••/••
A system of rotation for Commission offioials to delegations in third countries has been introduced "by the Commission, in parellel to a system of internal mobility.
This system is designed to give officials breadth of experience while ensuring that external representation is oarried out by officials with experience of work in the Commission's headquarters, as well as to make
possible the posting to external offices of officials from services other than those principally concerned with external relations.
The system applies to A, B and C officials. Special consideration is given to management and personal problems, particularly in the two latter cases. The system operates by means of regular consideration of fresh postipgs for all officials who have been in posts abroad for 3 years or more, on the basis that a posting is normally for 3 years but that this can be extended for up to three further years. The first new postings under this system will take place in 1978.
The ensemble of EAC expatriate overseas personnel are rotated on an ad hoc basis dependent on the requirements of the service about once every four years.
In order to encourage the: mobility of Commission officials and their interpenetration with the staff of EAC, the Commission had asked the Council
for34postsinthe1977Budget. TheCouncilstipulatedthattheexecution
of this operation would be conditional on settling various political , financial andstaffstatusquestions. Theexplanationsrequestedhavebeensent
to the Council in the form of a working paper. This paper is designed
to enable the Council's decision of 23 November 1976 to create 34 new
posts to be put into effect. It reviews the political, statutory and finanoial aspects of the exercise.
The Commission does not believe that the existence of two systems
for managing its relations with ita external offices, which differ in some l
respects as the foregoing account makes clear, presents in itself an obstacle to efficient operation. It ia the Commission's policy to find solutionsforproblemsastheyarise. Nevertheless,theCommissionis keeping the situation under review, with a view to making further progress in achieving convergence between the differing arrangements.
 On13October1975, theCounciladoptedasanApointthefollowir decision (see doc. iy'232?/l/75 (AG 52 rev. l) t
Immediately after each Council meeting the General Secretariat of the Council would draw up, under the responsibility of the Presidency, a draft telex providing infoiuation for the countries concerned "by the Decision. This draft would then be forwarded to the delegations for approval .
If no comments were received from any delegation within 24 hours , the telex would "be considered approved and sent by the Presidency to its Embassy/Embassies in the country/countries concerned.
At the end of the telex, the Embassy of the co-untry holding the Presidency would be asked to forward the telex to the Embassies 6f the other Member States BO that decisions taken might be submitted in co­ ordinated form to the local authorities concerned and to the public.
The above system would be tested for an experimental period and reviewed in the light of results.
The cjaestion of information on Commission decisions will be examined in due course.
