In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
ii) seprêtentassistancesilademandeenestfaite;
Convention open for signature from 3 March 1980. Decision of Council needed prior to that date.
Korea, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahariya
Luxembourg Mexico Netherlands Niger Norway Pakistan
Meeting of Governmental Representatives to consider the Drafting
of a Contention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
The Meeting of Governmental Representative to Consider the Drafting of a Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material met
in Vienna at the Headquarters of the International Atomic Energy- Agency from 31 October to 10 November 1977»' from 10 to 20 April 1978, from 5 "to February and from 15 to 26 October 1979» Informal consultations between Governmental Representatives took place •
from 4 to 7 September 1978 and from 24. to 25 September 1979*
Representatives of fifty eight States and one organization participated namely, representatives of:
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics United Arab Bnirates
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
United States of America
European Atomic Energy Community
The following States and international organizations participated as observers :
Malaysia . Thailand
Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
The meeting elected Ambassador D.L. Siazon Jr. (Philippines) as
Chairman. For the meetings in April 1978 and February 1979
Mr. R.A. Estrada-Oyuela (Argentina) was elected Chairman. t.«
The Meeting elected as Vice-Chairmen:
Mr. K. Willuhn of the German Democratic Republic, who"at the meeting
in February 1979 was succeeeded by Mr. H. Rabold of the German Democratic Republic ; ,
Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands, who at the meeting of October 1979 was succeeeded by Mr. G. Dahlhoff of the Federal Republic of Germany;
Mr. R.A. Estrada-Oyuela, Argentina, who at the meeting of October 1979 was succeded . by Mr. L.A. Olivieri of Argentina .
Mr. L.W. Herron (Australia) was elected Rapporteur. For the meeting in October 1979 Mr. N.R. 9nith (Australia) was elected Rapporteur.
Secretariat services were provided by the International Atomic
Energy Agency. The Director General of the Agency was represented
by the Director of the Legal Division of the Agency, Mr. D.M. Edwards and, in succession to him, Mr. L.W. Herron.
The Meeting set up the following groups:
The Meeting had before it the following documents:
(a) * Draft Convention -on-the. Physical Protect ion of Nuclear Materials , facilities and Transports, as contained in document CPNM/l.
Working Group on Technical Issues Chairman : Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands
Working Group on Legal Issues
Working Group on Scope of Convention
Chairman: Mr. K. Willuhn, German Democratic Republic
Members: Representatives of Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Qatar, Tunisia ,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of " America.
(fc) IAEA Document INFCIRC/225»Rev.l: The Physical Protection of . Nuclear Material
(c) IAEA Document INFCIRC/254: Communications Received from Certain Member States regarding Guidelines for the Export of Nuclear Material , Equipment or Technology
The Meeting completed consideration of a Convention, the text of which is attached as Annex I. Certain delegations expressed reservations with regard to particular provisions in the text. These are recorded in the documents and in the Daily Reports of
the Meeting. It was agreed that the text will be referred by delegations to their authorities.
The Meeting recommended that the text of the Convention be transmitted for information to the Twenty-third General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
The Convention willj . in accordance with its terms^be
opened for signature from 3 March 1980 at the Headquarters of the
International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York.
Vienna, 26 October 1979 " Chairman of the Meeting
Signed by the delegations of:
The States Parties to this Convention,
- Recognizing the right of all States to develop and apply nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and their legitimate interests in the potential
benefits to be derived from the peaceful application of nuclear energy.
Convinced of the need for facilitating international co-operation in the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
Desiring to avert the potential dangers posed by the unlawful taking and use of nuclear material,
Convinced that offences relating to nuclear material are a matter of grave concern and that there is an urgent need to adopt appropriate and effective measures to ensure the prevention, detection and punishment of such offences, . ^ .
Aware of the need for international co-operation to establish, in conformity with the national law of each State Party and with this Convention, effective measures for the physical protection of nuclear material,
Convinced that this Convention should facilitate the safe transfer
Stressing also the importance of the physical protection .of nuclear material in domestic use, storage and transport,
. Recognizingtheimportanceofeffectivephysicalprotectionofnuclear' material used for military purposes*, and understanding that such material
is and will continue to be accorded stringent physical protection,
Have agreed as'follows:
 Article 1 For the purposes of -this Convention:
(a) "nuclearmaterial"meansplutoniumexceptthatwithisotopic concentrationexceeding80$6inplutonium-238; uranium-233; uranium enriched in the isotopes 235 233; uranium containing the mixture of isotopes as occurring in nature other than in the form of ore or ore-residue; any material containing one 6r more
. of the foregoing;
(b) "uraniumenrichedintheisotope235or233**meansuranium containing the isotopes 235 or 233 or "both in an amount such that the abundance ratio of the sum of these isotopes to the isotope233isgreaterthantheratiooftheisotope 235to
the isotope 23d occurring in nature;
(c) "internationalnucleartransport"meansthecarriageofa consignment of nuclear material by any means of transportation intended to go beyond the territory of the State where the shipment originates beginning'with the departure from a facility of the shipper in that State and ending with the arrival at a facility of the receiver within the State of
1. This Convention shall apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in international nuclear transport*
2* With the exception of articles 3 and 4 and paragraph 3 of article 5» this Convention shall also apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes While in domestic use, storage and transport*
3. Apart from the commitments expressly undertaken by States Parties
in the articles covered "by paragraph 2 with respect to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in domestic use, storage and transportf nothing in this Convention shall "be interpreted as affecting the sovereign
rights of a State regarding the domestic use. storage and transport of »
Each State Party shall take appropriate steps within the framework of its national law and consistent with international law to ensure as far as
practicable that, during international nuclear transportf nuclear material within its territory, or on board a ship or aircraft under its jurisdic­ tion insofar as such ship or aircraft is engaged in the transport to or from that State, is protected at the levels described in Annex !•
1. Each State Party shall not export or authorize the export of nuclear material unless the State Party has received assurances that such material will "be protected during the international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I.
2. Each State Party shall not import or authorize the import of nuclear material from a State not party to this Convention unless the State Party has received assurances that such material will during the international nuclear transport he protected at the levels described in amw I,
3. A State Party shall not allow the transit of its territory by land or internal waterways or through its airports or seaports of nuclear material between States that are not parties to this Convention unless the State Party
has received assurances as far as practicable that this nuclear material will be protected during international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I.
4* Each State Party shall apply within the framework of its national
law the levels of physical protection described in ATIWWT I to nuclear material being transported from a part of that State to another part of the same State through international waters or airspace*
5# The State Party responsible for receiving assurances that the nuclear material will be protected at the levels described in Annex I according to paragraphs 1 to 3 shall identify and inform in advance States which the nuclear material is expected to transit by land or internal waterways, or whose airports or seaports it is expected to enter.
6. The responsibility for obtaining assurances referred to in paragraph 1 may be transferred, by mutual agreement, to the State Party involved in the transport as the importing State.
7. Bothing in this article shall be interpreted as in any way affecting the territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction of a State, including that over its airspace and territorial sea.
1. States Parties shall identify and make known to each other directly or through the International Atomic Energy Agency their central authority and point of contact having responsibility for physical protection of
nuclear material and for co-ordinating recovery and response operations in the event of any unauthorized removal, use or alteration of nuclear
material or in the event of credible threat thereof.
2* In the case of theft, robbery or any other unlawful taking of nuclear material or of credible threat thereof, States Parties shall, in accordance with their national law, provide co-operation and assistance to the maximum feasible extent in the recovery and protection of such material to any State that so requests. In particular:
(a) a State Party shall take appropriate steps to inform as soon as
possible other States^which appear to it to be concerned, of any theft, robbery or other unlawful taking of nuclear material or
credible threat thereof and to inform, where appropriate, inter­ national organizations;
(b) . as appropriate, the States Parties concerned shall exchange information with each other or international organizations with a view to protecting threatened nuclear material, verifying the integrity of the shipping container, or recovering unlawfully taken nuclear material# and shall:
(i) co-ordinate their efforts through diplomatic and other agreed channels ;
(iil) ensure the return of nuclear material stolen or missing as a consequence of the above-mentioned events*
Tho means of implementation of this co-operation shall be determined by the States Parties concerned.
3. Stat68 Parties shall co-operate and consult as appropriate, with each other directly or through international organizations, with a view to obtain­ ing guidance on the design, maintenance and improvement of systems of physical protection of nuclear material in international transport#
1. States Parties shall take appropriate measures consistent with their national law to protect the confidentiality of any information which they receive in confidence "by virtue of the provisions of this Convention from another State Party or through participation in an activity carried out for the implementation of this Convention. If .States Parties provide information
to international organizations in confidence, steps shall be taken to ensure that the confidentiality of such information is protected.
. 2. States Parties shall not "be required by this Convention to provide any information which they are not permitted to communicate pursuant to national law or which would jeopardize the security of the State concerned or the physical protection of nuclear material.
The intentional commission of: I
shall be lav.
an act without lawful authority which constitutes the receipt, possession, use, transfer, alteration, disposal or dispersal of nuclear material and which causes or is likely to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial damage to property ;
a theft or robbery of nuclear material;
an embezzlement or fraudulent obtaining of nuclear material;
an act constituting a demand for nuclear material by threat or use of force or by any other form of intimidation;
a threat:
(i) to use nuclear material to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial property damage, or
(ii) to commit an offence described in sub-paragraph (b) in order to compel a natural or legal person, international organiza­ tion or State to do or to refrain from doing any act;
an attempt to commit any offence described in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c); and
an act which constitutes participation in any offence described in paragraphs (a) to (f)
a punishable offence by each State Party under its national
2. Each State Party shall make the offences described in this article
Mmishable by appropriate penalties which take into account their grave
1. Each State Party shall take such measures as may "be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 7 in the following cases: ~ –
(a) whentheoffenceiscommittedintheterritoryofthatState or on board a ship or aircraft registered' in that State;
(b) whentheallegedoffenderisanationalofthatState*
2« Each State Party shall likewise take such measures as may be necessary f
to establish its jurisdiction over these offences in cases where the alleged offender is present in its territory and it does bot extradite him pursuant to article 11to any of the States mentioned in paragraph 1*
3* This Convention does not exclude any criminal jurisdiction exercised 'in accordance with national law.
4, In addition to the States Parties mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2» each State Party may," consistent with international lawt establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 7 when it is involved in international nuclear transport as the exporting or importing State* -
Upon"beingsatisfiedthatthecircumstancessowarrant, theState Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present shall take appropriate measures, including detention, under its national law to ensure his presence for the purpose of prosecution or extradition*
Measures taken according to this article shall he notified without delay to the States required to establish jurisdiction pursuant to article 8 and, where appropriate, all other States concerned*
The State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present I
shall, if it does not extradite him, submit, without exception whatsoever and without undue delay, the case to its competent authorities for the purpose of prosecution, through proceedings in accordance with the laws of that State. -•
1. The offences in article 7 shall "be deemed to "be included as
extraditable offences in any extradition treaty existing between States Parties, States Parties undertake to include those offences
as extraditable offences in every future extradition treaty to be concluded between them.
2. If a State Party which makes extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty receives a request for extradition from another State Party with which it has no extradition treaty, it may at its
option consider this Convention as the legal basis for extradition in respect 'of those offences. Extradition shall be subject to the other conditions provided by the law of the requested State.
3. StatesParties which do not make extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty shall recognize those offences as extraditable offences between themselves subject to the conditions provided by the
law of the requested State.
4. Each of the offences shall be treated, for the purpose of extra­ dition between States Parties, as if it had been committed not only in the place in which it occurred but also in the territories of ^he States Parties required to establish their jurisdiction in accordance
with paragraph 1 of article 8.
Any person regarding whoa proceedings are being carried out in con­ nection with any of the offences set forth in article 7 shall be guaranteed fair treatment at all stages of the proceedings.
1. States Parties shall afford one another the greatest measure of assis­ tance in connection with criminal proceedings "brought in respect of the offences set forth in article 7» including the supply of evidence at their
disposal necessarj for the proceedings. The law of the State requested shall apply in all cases*
2« The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not affect obligations under any other treaty, bilateral or multilateral, which governs or will govern, in whole or in part* mutual assistance in criminal matters*
1. Each State Party shall inform the depositary of its laws and regulations
which give effect to this Convention. The depositary shall communicate such information periodically to all States Parties.
2*. The State Party where an alleged offender is prosecuted shall, wherever practicable) first communicate the final outcome of the proceedings to the States directly concerned. The State Party shall also communicate the final outcome to the depositary who shall inform all States.
3» Where an offence involves nuclear material used for peaceful purposes in domestic use, storage or transport, and both the alleged offender and the nuclear material remain in the territory of the State Party in which the offence was committed, nothing in this Convention shall be interpreted as requiring that State Party to provide information concerning criminal
proceedings arising out of such an offence.
 The Annexes
1* A-conference of States Parties shall be convened by the depositary five years after the entry into force of this Convention to review the implementation of the Convention and its adequacy as concerns the preamble
the whole of the operative part and the annexes in the light of the then prevailing situation.
2. At intervals of not less than five years thereafterf the majority of States Parties may obtain, by submitting a proposal to this effect to
the depositary! the convening of further conferences with the same objective .
1. In the event of a dispute "between two or more States Parties
concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention, such States Parties Shall Consult with a view to the settlement
of the dispute "by negotiation, or lay any other peaceful means of settling disputes acceptable to sill parties to the dispute,
2. Any dispute of this character which cannot he settled in the manner prescribed in paragraph 1 shall, at the request of any party to such dispute, be submitted to arbitration ot referred to the International Court of Justice for decision* Where a dispute is submitted to arbitration, if, within six months from the date of the request, the parties to the dispute are unable to agree on the organization of the arbitration, a party may request the President of the International Court of Justice or the Secretary-General of
the United Nations to appoint one or more arbitrators. In case of conflicting requests by the parties to the dispute, the request to the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall have priority.
3* Each State Party may at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto declare that it does not consider itself hound by either or both of the dispute settlement procedures provided for in paragraph 2.
The other States Parties shall not "be hound by a dispute settle­ ment procedure provided for in paragraph 2, with respect to a State Party which has made a reservation to that procedure.
4. Any State Party which has made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 3 may at any time withdraw that reservation by notification to the depositary.
1*, This Conventionshallbeopenforsignatureby'allStatesat the Eeadcruarters of the International Atomic Snergy Agency in Vienna and at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York from 3 March 1980 until . its entry into force.
2. This Convention is subject to ratification., acceptance or approval by the signatory States.
3. • After its entry into force, this Convention will be open for accession by all States.
4. , (a) This Convention shall be open,for signature or accession ^y
international organistions and regional organisations of an integration or other nature, provided that any such organisation is constituted by sovereign
States and has competence in respect of the negotiation, conclusion and
application of international agreements in matters covered by this Convention. . -0
(b) Inmatterswithintheircompetence,suchorganisationsshall,on their own behalf, exercise the rights and fulfil the responsibilities which this Convention attributes to States Parties.
(c) WhenbecomingpartytothisConventionsuchanorganisationshall communicate to the depositary a declaration indicating which States are members thereof and which articles of this Convention do not apply to it.
(d) Suchanorganisationshallnotholdasyvoteadditionaltothoseof its Member States.
5. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession shall be deposited with the depositary. „
1. This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day
following the date of deposit of the twenty first instrument of ratification, acceptance oc approval with the depositary.
2. For each State ratifying) accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention after the date of deposit of the twenty first instrument
of ratification acceptance or approval, the Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the deposit "by such State of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession*
1. Without prejudice to article 16 a State Party may propose amendments
to this Convention. The proposed amendment shall be submitted to the depositary who shall circulate it immediately to all States Parties. If a majority of States Parties request the depositary to convene a conference to
consider the proposed amendments} the depositary shall invite all States Parties to attend such a conference to begin not sooner than thirty days after the invitations are issued. Any amendment adopted at the conference \iy a two-thirds majority of all States Parties shall be promptly circulated by the depositazy to all States Parties.
2. The amendment shall enter into force for each State Party that deposits its instrument of ratification acceptance or approval of the amendment on 'the thirtieth day after the date on which two thirds of the States Parties
have deposited their instruments of ratification) acceptance or approval with
{he depositary. Thereafter, the amendment shall enter into force for any «
other State Party on the day on woich that State Party deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendment.
1* Any State Party may denounce this Convention by written notification to the depositary*
2* Denunciation shall take effect one hundred and eighty days following the date on which notification is received by the depositary*
The depositary shall promptly notify all States of:
(a) each signature of this Convention;
(TD) each deposit of an instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession ;
(c) any reservation or withdrawal in accordance with article 17;
(d) any communication made by an organization in accordance with paragraph 4(c) of article 18;
(e) the entry into force of this Convention;
(f) the entry into force of any amendment to this Convention; and (g) any denunciation made under article 21*
The original of this Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall he deposited, with the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency who shall send certified copies thereof to all States*
 IH WITNESS WHEHE30F, the tmd.ersign.ed, being duly authorized, have signed this Convention, opened for signature at Vienna and at New York on 3 March 1980. . <
Levels of physical protection for nuclear material during international
levels of Physical Protection to be Applied in International Transport or "" r~ : Unclear Haterjal as Categorized in Annex II
1. Levels of physical protection for nuclear material during storage incidental to international nuclear transport include:
For Category III materials, storage within an area to which access is controlled;
For Category II materials, storage within an area under constant surveillance by guards or electronic devices, surrounded by a physical barrier with a limited nunber of points of entry under appropriate control or any area with an equivalent level of physical protection,-
For Category I material, storage within a protected area as defined' ror
Category H above, to which, in addition, access is restricted to persons whose trustworthiness has been determined, and which is under surveillance by guards who are in close communication with appropriate response forces'* Specific measures taken in this contert should have as their object the
detection and' prevention of any assault , unauthorised access or unauthorized removal of material.
(a) For.Category II and III materials, transportation shall take place
. under special precautions including prior arrangements among sender,
receiver, and carrier, and prior agreement between natural or legal persons subject to the jurisdiction and regulation of exporting and importing states, specifying time, place and procedures for transferring transport responsibility; " - .
(b) For Category 1 materials, transportation shall take place under special precautions- identified above for transportation of Category II and
Hi oaterials, and in addition, under constant surveillance by
escorts and under conditions which assure close communication with appropriate response forces. .
(c) fornaturaluraniumotherthanintheformoforeorore–residue, transportation protection for quantities exceeding $00 kilograms U shall include advance notification of 6hipeent specifying node of transport, expected tise of arrival and confirmation of receipt of shipment*
Loos than 2 kg tout mora than
Looo than 5 kg but moro than
10 kg or moro
Looa than 2 kg but moro than 500 g
Dopletod or natural
uranium, thorium or low-enriched fuel
(leao than 10$ ,/ / floailo content)-'-2/
500 g or leao but more than 15 g
1 kg or leao but moro than 15 g
Looa than 10 kg but moro than 1 kg
10 kg or moro
500 g or looo but moro than 15 g
Irradiated fuel
2 kg or moro
- uranium enriohod -to 20$ U or more
- uraniv&n enriched to 10$ but looo than 20$ , '
- uranium enriched abovo natural, but looo than 10$ 235U
' 5 kg or moro
a/ All plutonlum oxccpt that with iookoplo concentration eiooodlng 00$ In plutonlum-2j0»
b/ Matorial not Irradiated in a roaotor or material irradiettod in a roaotor but witn a radiation level equal to or leoo than 100 rads/hour at one motre unshioldod*
oj Quantities not falling in Category III and natural uranium should bo protected in accordance with prudent management prjxotice*
d/ Although thio levol of proteotion is recommondod, it would be 'opon to States, upon evaluation of the opeoifib circumstances, to aoeign a differont category of phyaical protootion . .
e/ Other fuel which by virtue of its original flooilo material content io olaooified as Category I pnd II boforo irradiation may be reduced one category lovel whilo the
radiation lovel from the fuel toxoooda 100 rado/hour at ono metro unohielded*
Convention open for sighature from 3 March 1980. Decision of Council needed prior to that date. •
As concerns the provisions of the Convention related to mixed Commu­ nity and Member State competences it does not have to disclose how such competences are distributed internally . On the right to vote , the Community can vote on matters relating to the implementation of the Convention in its customary manner , that is , it cannot command an additional vote to that of its Member States.
Negotiations were also successful as far as those points of the
to envisage such a perspective . As to the disputes procedure , a new arbitration clause was drawn up that accommodates the Community as well as other parties and, in particular, does not necessitate recourse to
a special procedure only in case of the Community being involved in a
It can therefore be considered that the guidelines laid down in the Council directives have beer, completely respected .
Consequently , it is proposed tnat the Commission
a) approve the results of these negotiations as far as the Community is concerned and ,
b) approve the sending of a comm»inication to the Council together with the enclosed Annexes seeking formal Council approval according to Article 101(2) of the EURATOM Treaty
c) authorise Mr. Brunner or his representative to sign the Convention after the Council has approved
d) approve the making by the Commission when' signing of the declaration as set out in Annex 3 indicating which States are members of EURATOM and which articles of the Convention do not apply to the Community.
directives are
concerned which deal with matters of substance in
in particular its scope, review and arbitration the basis of a Commission proposal, the provisions scope of cooperation and assistance in unlawful
Note <0 the Commission
1. The last phase of the two year long negotiations on an international Convention for physical protection of nuclear material was success­ fully completed at a meeting of Governmental Representatives which took place at the International Atomic Energy Agency's Headquarters in Vienna between 17 and 26 October.
2. The Commission on behalf of EURATOM participated in these negotia­ tions on the basis of the Council 's directives of the 6 February and 18 September 1979 . The Commission delegation took part in the plenary sessions as well as a number of working groups set up to examine several items also addressed in the directives..
3. The efforts deployed by the Commission in the later phase of negotia­ tions that have taken place since February have been crowned with success : the Community can adhere to the Convention either by signature or by accession in the same way as any sovereign state.
the Convention ,
relating to the
taking of nuclear material were nualified. For a possible Review
of the Convention a compromise a solution was found between those countries fa­ vouring an increase of the Convention's scope and others more reluctant
 Communication from the Commission to the Council
Between 17 and 26 October at the international Atomiq Energy Agency's headquarters in Vienna f-jnal negotiations took place on concluding a Convention on Physical Protection of nuclear material . The Commission representing the European atomic Energy Community participated in t;he meeting and along with 58 participating countries was able t;o sign the Final Act which brought the two year long negotiations on this Convention to a successful conclusion .
The basis of the Commission's participation were directives given by the Council of Ministers at its meeting of 18 September in which were set out in detail the main points that would have to be successfully negotiated by the Commission if the Community was to eventually participate in the Convention..
a) the participation of the Commission in the negotiations
as well as the conditions for the accession of the Com­ munity as such ;
b) the negotiation of important problems which related to the substance of the convention itself, e.g. its scope, a possible revision ard the settlement of disputes ;
c) the internal repartition of competences between the Community and the Member States.
The issue of EURATOM's accession to the Convention has been the subject of considerable discussion ever since the matter had been
presented by the Commission on the basis of a partial mandate at the negotiating Session in February 1979. In September an informal
meeting was specially convened on the subject and the Commission tabled an accession clause that would allow EURATOM to accede
to the Convention alongside its
 memDer states . Tpe meeting , however , was unable to agree on the specific terms for accession .
5. The compromise finally established at the October meeting after
extensive bargainingfiow indicates that the Convention would be VI>
open for signature or accession by "regional organisations of an integration or other nature" and jpy "international organisations" provided they wer<» constituted by sovereign states apd had the necessary competences. Furthermore the clause also incorporates the othep essential EURATOM requirement that on signing it was
only necessary for such organisation to indicate those Articles of the Convention that did not apply to it .
6. The Council directives also required that the Community would only
accept the Scope of the Convention as set out in the draft contained
in CPNM/ 77 / Corr . 1 provided that the provisions for cooperation and
assistance in the event of unlawful taking of nuclear material as
set out in the first paragraph of Article 5(2) of the above-mentioned
draft was not an obligation but depended upon being clearly at the
request of the State party concerned. The Commission tabled an
amendment to this effect, as contained in point 4 of the Council's
directives and this formed the basis of a text that^ was accepted by all participating States .
The Council directives required t; hat the Community could agree that after an unspecified period of tifne a conference would be held to review the operation of the Convention in the light .of circumstances then prevailing . Furthermore thg directives underlined that such a conference would in no way prejudge the position of those participating as to its outcome. Negotiations in Vienna confirmed the importance
the majority of other parties also attached to a conference of this kind and Article 16 of the final text provides for such a conference five years after entry into force of the Convention.
8. In addition to such - possibly periodic - reviews, provisions in the Convention have also been envisaged for an amendment procedure allowing updating to take account of technical developments in the field of nuclear transport. This procedure, which is set out in Article 20, foresees the possibility of a specially convened conference to consider such amendments if the majority of parties to the Convention agree.
9. The necessity of modifying the arbitration and disputes procedure was also an element of the directives because the proposed procedure of
submitting disputes over arbitration to the International Court of Justice as a last resort could not be used in cases involving the
 Community since the Statutes of the ICJ rule out the possibility »
of the Community as such being party to proceedings before it . Alternative proposals were submitted to the meeting by the Com­ mission and other participants. Eventually a new Aticle 17 was
drawn up which incorporates the essential elements of the Commis­ sion 's earlier draft proposal . It provides that when negotiations over a dispute have broken down the matter can be referred either
to arbitration or to the International Court of Justice for decision. In the case where the procedure chosen is arbitration and the parties cannot agree on how it is arranged/ either may request the President of the International Court of justice or the Secretary General of the United Nations to appoint one or more arbitrators. In the case of conflicting requests by the parties to the dispute, the request to the Secretary General of the United Nations shall have priority.
This solution accommodates the position of the Community and avoids recourse to a specific procedure limited to disputes in which the Community would be involved. It can therefore be accepted by the Community .
10. The Convention will be open for signature from 3 March 1980.
It will_enter into force after ratification by 21 signatories. By virtue of Article 102 of the EURATOM Treaty and
because of the complementary character of the competences of the Community and its Member States in matters covered by the Convention, it is necessary that the instruments of approval and ratification be deposited by the Community and its Member States at the same time. Furthermore, it would be appropriate that the Convention be signed by the Commission on behalf of Euratom and by its Member States simultaneously.
11. The Commission now submits the text of the Convention (Annex 1) so that the Council may approve its conclusion by the Commission (see Annex 2) according to the procedure of Article 101 (2) of the Euratom Treaty . In accordance with Article 18.4 . ( c ) of the Convention, the Commission will, at the same time, make a declaration, as set out in Annex 3 indicating which States are members of Euratom and which Articles of the Convention do not apply to it .
 /wvtx Meeting of Governmental Representatives to consider the Drafting
of a Contention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
The Meeting of. Governmental Representativ® to Consider the Drafting of a Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material met
in Vienna at the Headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency from 31 October to 10 November 1977»' from 10 to 20 April 1978, from 5 "to February and from 15 to 26 October 1979* Informal consultations between Governmental Representatives took place •
from 4 to 7 September 1978 and from 24. to 25 September 1979*
Representatives of fifty eight States and one organization participated namely, representatives of:
Austria Holy See
Indonesia Ireland Israel
Korea, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahariya Luxembourg
Netherlands
Finland Niger France Norway
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics United Arab Bnirates
united Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
United States of America Venezuela
The following States and international organizations participated as observers:
Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
The meeting elected Ambassador D.L. Siazon Jr. (Philippines) as Chairman. ForthemeetingsinApril1978andFebruary1979 Mr. R.A. Estrada-Oyuela (Argentina) was elected Chairman.
The Meeting elected as Vice-Chairmen:
Mr. K. Willuhn of the German Democratic Republic, who "at the meeting
in February 1979 was succeeeded by Mr. H. Rabold of the German Democratic Republic; ,
Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands, who at the meeting of' October 1979 was succeeeded by Mr. G. Dahlhoff of the Federal Republic of Germany;
Mr. R.A. Estrada-Oyuela, Argentina, who at the meeting of October 1979 was succeded . by Mr. L.A. Olivieri of Argentina .
European Atomic Energy Community
 , Mr.L.W.Herron(Australia)waselectedRapporteur. Forthemeeting inOctober1979Mr.N.R.Snith (Australia)waselectedRapporteur.
Secretariat services were provided by the_ International Atomic EnergyAgency. TheDirectorGeneraloftheAgencywasrepresented
by the Director of the Legal Division of the Agency, Mr. D.M. Edwards andi in succession to him. Mr. L.W. Herron.
The Meeting set up the following groups:
Working Group on Technical Issues Chairman: Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands
Working Group on Legal Issues
Working Group on Scope of Convention
Chairman: Mr. K. Willuhn, German Democratic Republic
Members: Representatives 6f Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Prance, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Qatar, Tunisia ,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of • America. ' *
The Meeting had before it the following documents:
(a) ' Draft Convention on--the. Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials, Facilities and Transports, as contained in document CPNM/l. '
The Meeting completed consideration of a Convention, the text of
which is attached as Annex I. Certain delegations expressed >
reservations with regard to particular provisions in the text. These are recorded in the documents and in the Daily Reports of the Meeting. It was agreed that the text will be referred by delegations to their authorities.
The Meeting recommended that the text of the Convention be transmitted
for information to the Twenty-third General Conference of the
International Atomic Energy Agency.
The Convention willj . . in accordance with its terms^be
opened for signature from 3 March 1980 at the Headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York.
IAEA Document INFCIRC/225»Rev.1: The Physical Protection of . Nuclear Material
IAEA Document INFCIRC/254: Communications Received from Certain Member States regarding Guidelines for the Export of Nuclear Material , Equipment or Technology
Chairman of the Meeting /
Signed by the delegations of:
The States Parties to this Convention,
v Recognizing the right of all States to develop and apply nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and their legitimate interests in the potential benefits to be derived from the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
Convinced of the need for facilitating international co-operation in the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
Desiring to avert the potential dangers posed by the unlawful talcing and use of nuclear material,
Convinced that offences relating to nuclear material are a matter of grave concern and that there is an urgent need to adopt appropriate and effective measures to ensure the prevention, detection and punishment of such offences, - '
. Aware of the need for international co-operation to establish, in conformity with the national law of each State Party and with this Convention, effective measures for the physical protection of nuclear material, ,
Convinced that this Convention should facilitate the safe transfer
Stressing also the importance of the physical protection .of nuclear material in domestic use, storage and transport,
. . Recognizing the importance of effective physical protection of nuclear material used for military purposes^, and understanding that such material is a*"* will continue to be accorded stringent physical protection,
Have agreed as-follows:
For the purposes of this Convention: \
"nuclear material" means plutonium except that with isotopic concentration exceeding 8056 in plxrtonium-238; uranium-233; uranium enriched in the isotopes 235 or 233; nrani-um containing
the mixture of isotopes as occurring in nature other than in the
form of ore or ore-residue; any material containing one 6r more . of the foregoing;
"uranium enriched in the isotope 235 or 233" means uranium containing the isotopes 235 or 233 or both in an amount such that the abundance ratio of the sum of these isotopes to the isotope 233 is greater than the ratio of the isotope 235 to
the isotope 238 occurring in nature;
"international nuclear transport" means the carriage of a consignment of nuclear material by any means of transportation intended to go beyond the territory of the State where the shipment originates beginning with the departure from a facility of the shipper in that State and ending with the
arrival at a facility of the receiver within the State of ultimate destination.
1* This Convention shall apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in international nuclear transport*
2* With the exception of articles 3 and 4 and paragraph 3 of article 5, this Convention shall also apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in domestic use, storage and transport#
3* Apart from the commitments expressly undertaken by States Parties
in the articles covered toy paragraph 2 with respect to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes. while in domestic use, storage and transport, nothing in this Convention shall he interpreted as affecting the sovereign
rights of a State regarding the domestic use, storage and transport of
Each State Party shall take appropriate steps within the framework of its national law and consistent with international law to ensure as far as
practicable that, during international nuclear transport, nuclear material within its territory, or on board a ship or aircraft under its jurisdic­ tion insofar as such ship or aircraft is engaged in the transport to or from that State, is protected at the levels described in Armex I.
1. Each. State Party shall not export or authorize the export of nuclear
material unless the State Party has received assurances that such material
will "be protected during the international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I.
2. Each State Party shall not import or authorize the import of nuclear material from a State not party to this Convention unless the State Party
has received assurances that such material will during the international nuclear transport he protected at the levels described in fanar j.
3. A State Party shall not allow the transit of its territory by land or internal Waterways or through its airports or seaports of nuclear material between States that are not parties to this Convention unless the State Party has received assurances as far as practicable that this nuclear material
will be protected during international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I.
4* Each State Party shall apply within the framework of itB national
law the levels of physical protection described in Annex I to nuclear material being transported from a part of that State to another part of the same State through international waters or airspace*
5» The State Party responsible for receiving assurances that the nuclear material will be protected at the levels described in Annex I according to paragraphs 1 to 3 shall identify and inform in advance States which the nuclear material is expected to transit by land or internal waterways, or whose airports or seaports it is expected to enter.
6. The responsibility for obtaining assurances referred to in paragraph 1 may be transferred^ by mutual agreementt to the State Party involved in the transport as the importing State,
7. Kothing in this article shall be interpreted as in any way affecting the territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction of a State, including that over its airspace and territorial sea.
1. States Parties shall identify and make known to each other directly or through the International Atomic Energy Agency their central authority and point of contact having responsibility for physical protection of
nuclear material and for co-ordinating recovery and response operations in the event of any unauthorized removal, use or alteration of nuclear
material or in the event of credible threat thereof.
2. In the case of theft, robbery or any other unlawful taking of nuclear material or of credible threat thereof, States Parties shall, in accordance with their national law, provide co-operation and assistance to the maximum feasible extent in the recovery and protection of such material to any State that so requests* In particular:
(a) a State Party shall take appropriate steps to inform as soon as
possible other States^which appear to it to be concerned, of any theft, robbery or other unlawful taking of nuclear material or
credible threat thereof and to inform, where appropriate, inter­ national organizations;
(b) . as appropriate, the States Parties concerned shall exchange information with each other or international organizations with a view to protecting threatened nuclear material, verifying the integrity of the shipping container, or recovering unlawfully taken nuclear material# and shall:
co-ordinate their efforts through diplomatic and other agreed channels ;
ensure the return of nuclear material stolen or missing as a consequence of the above–mentioned events*
The means of implementation of this co-operation shall be determined by the States Parties concerned*
3. States Parties shall co-operate and consult as appropriate, with each other directly or through international organizations, with a view to obtain­ ing guidance on the design, maintenance and improvement of systems of physical protection of nuclear material in international transport*
1. States Parties shall take appropriate measures consistent with their national law to protect the confidentiality of any information which they receive in confidence "by virtue of the provisions of this Convention from another State Party or through participation in an activity carried out for the implementation of this Convention . If , States Parties provide information
to international organizations in confidence, steps shall be taken to ensure that the confidentiality of such information is protected.
2. States Parties shall not he required "by this Convention to provide any information which they are not permitted to communicate pursuant to national law or which would jeopardize the security of the State concerned or the physical protection of nuclear material.
The intentional commission of: I
(a) anactwithoutlawfulauthoritywhichconstitutesthereceipt, . possession, use, transfer, alteration, disposal or dispersal
of nuclear material and which causes or is likely to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial damage to property;
(d) anactconstitutingademandfornuclearmaterialbythreator . use of force or by any other form of intimidation;
(i) tousenuclearmaterialtocausedeathorseriousinjury to any person or substantial property damage, or
(ii) to commit an offence described in sub-paragraph (b) in order to compel a natural or . legal person, international organiza­ tion or State to do or to refrain from doing any act;
(f) anattempttocommitanyoffencedescribedinparagraphs(a), (b) or (c); and
(g) anactwhichconstitutesparticipationinanyoffencedescribed in paragraphs (a) to (f)
be made a punishable offence by each State Party under its national la».
Each State Party shall make the offences described in this article
pm111iriiiblhi byappropriatepenaltieswhichtakeintoaccounttheirgrave fcature.
1« Each State Party shall take such measures as may "be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 7 in the following cases: –
(a) when the offence is committed in the territory of that State or on "board a ship or aircraft registered" in that State;
("b) when the alleged offender is a national of that State.
2« Each State Party shall likewise take such measures as may "be necessary f
to establish its jurisdiction over these offences in cases where the alleged offender is present in its territory and it does "hot extradite him pursuant to article 11to any of the States mentioned in paragraph 1.
3. This Convention does not exclude any criminal jurisdiction exercised
'in accordance with national law.
4* In addition to the States Parties mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2,
each State Party may, consistent with international 1 establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 7 when it is
involved in international nuclear transport as the exporting or importing State*
Upon "being satisfied that the circumstances so warrant, the State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present shall take appropriate measures, including detention, under its national law to ensure his presence for the purpose of prosecution or extradition*
Measures taken according to this article shall he notified without delay to the States required to establish jurisdiction pursuant to article 8 and. where appropriate, all other States concerned*
The State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present I
shall f if it does not extradite him, submit , without exception whatsoever and without undue delay, the case to its competent authorities for the purpose of prosecution, through proceedings in accordance with the laws
of that State.
1. The offences in article 7 shall be deemed to be included as
extraditable offences in any extradition treaty existing between States Parties. States Parties undertake to include those offences
as extraditable offences in every future extradition treaty to be concluded between them.
2. If a State Party which makes extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty receives a request for extradition from another State Party with which it has no extradition treaty, it may at its option consider this Convention as the legal basis for extradition
in respect 'of those offences. Extradition shall be subject to the
other conditions provided by the law of the requested State.
3. StatesParties which do not make extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty shall recognize those offences as extraditable offences between themselves subject to the conditions provided by the
law of the requested State.
4. Each of the offences shall be treated, for the purpose of extra­ dition between States Parties, as if it had been committed not only in the place in which it occurred but also in the territories of ^he States Parties required to establish their jurisdiction in accordance
with paragraph 1 of article 8.
Any person regarding whom proceedings are being carried out in con­ nection with any of the offences set forth in article 7 shall be guaranteed fair treatment at all stages of the proceedings.
1* States Parties nhall afford one another the greatest measure of assis­ tance in connection with criminal proceedings "brought in respect of the offences set forth in article 7» including the snpply of evidence at their disposal necessary for the proceedings* The law Of the State requested shall apply in all cases* .
2« The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not affect obligations under any other treaty, bilateral or multilateral, which governs or will govern, in whole or in part, mutual assistance in criminal matters*
1. Each State Party shall inform the depositary of its laws and regulations
which give effect to this Convention. The depositary shall communicate such information periodically to all States Parties.
2.. The State Party where an alleged offender is prosecuted shall, wherever practicable, first communicate the final outcome of the proceedings to the States directly concerned. The State Party shall also communicate the final outcome to the depositary who shall inform all States.
3. Where an offence involves nuclear material used for peaceful purposes in domestic use, storage pr transport, and both the alleged offender and the nuclear material remain in the territory of the State Party in which the offence was committed, nothing in this Convention shall be interpreted as requiring that State Party to provide information concerning criminal
proceedings arising out of such an offence.
The Annexes constitute
1* A-conference of States Parties shall fee convened by the depositary five years after the entry into force of this Convention to review the implementation of the Convention and its adequacy as concerns the preamble, the whole of the operative part and the annexes in the light of the then prevailing situation*
, 2, At intervals of not less than five years thereafter, the majority of States Parties may obtain, by submitting a proposal to this effect to
the depositary, the convening of further conferences with the same objective .
1. In the event of a dispute between -two or more States Parties
concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention, such States Parties shall Consult with a view to the settlement
of the dispute "by negotiation, or by any other peaceful means of settling disputes acceptable to all parties to the dispute.
2. Any dispute of this character which cannot "be settled in the manner prescribed in paragraph 1 shall, at the request of any party to such dispute, be submitted to arbitration or* referred to the International Court of Justice for decision. Where a dispute is submitted to arbitration, if, within six months from the date of the request, the parties to the dispute are unable to agree on the organization of the arbitration, a party may request the President of the International Court of Justice or the Secretary-General of
the United Nations to appoint one or more arbitrators. In case of conflicting requests by the parties to the dispute, the request to the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall have priority.
3* Each State Party may at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto declare that it does not consider itself bound by either or both of the dispute settlement procedures provided for in paragraph 2.
The other States Parties shall not be bound by a dispute settle­ ment procedure provided for in paragraph 2, with respect to a State Party which has made a reservation to that procedure.
4* Any State Party which has made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 3 may at any time withdraw that reservation by notification to the depositary. ..
1*, This Conventionshallbeopenforsignature"byallStatesat
the Eeadouarters of the Iatematioaal Atomic Energy Agency in_Vienna. and at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York froa 3 March 1980 until . its entry into force.
2. This. Convention is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by the signatory States.
3. • After its entry into force, this Convention will be open for accession by all States.
4-. , (a) This Convention shall be open,for signature or accession by •*
international organisations and regional organisations of an integration or other nature, provided that any such organisation is constituted-by sovereign
States and has competence in respect of the negotiation, conclusion and
apolication of international agreements in matters covered by this Convention. 0
(b) Inmatterswithintheircompetence,suchorganisationsshall,on their own behalf, exercise the rights and fulfil the responsibilities which this Convention attributes to States Parties.
(c) WhenbecomingpartytothisConventionsuchanorganisationshall communicate to the depositary a declaration indicating which States are members thereof and which articles of this Convention do not apply to it.
(d) Suchanorganisationshallnotholdanyvoteadditionaltothoseof its Member States. .
5. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession shall be - deposited with the depositary. ,
1. This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day
following the date of deposit of the twenty first instmment of ratification, acceptance oc approval with the depositary.
' 2. For each State ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention after the date of deposit of the twenty first instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval, the Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the deposit by such State of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
1. Without prejudice to article 16 & State Party may propose amendments
to this Convention. The proposed amendment shall be submitted to the depositary who shall circulate it immediately to all States Parties* If a majority of States Parties request the depositary to convene a conference to
consider the proposed amendments} the depositary shall invite all States Parties to attend such a conference to begin not sooner than thirty days after the invitations are issued* Any amendment adopted at the conference by a two-thirds majority of all States Parties shall be promptly circulated by the depositary to all States Parties.
2. The amendment shall enter into force for each State Party that deposits
its instrument of ratification acceptance or approval of the amendment on 'the thirtieth day after the date on which two thirds of the States Parties
have deposited their instruments of ratification} acceptance or approval with
ihe depositary. Thereafter, the amendment shall enter into force for any »
other State Party on the day on which that State Party deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendment.
1# Any State Party may denounce this Convention by written notification to the depositary*
2, Denunciation shall take effect one hundred and eighty days following the date on which notification is received by the depositary.
 The depositary shall promptly notify all States of:
each signature of this Convention;
each deposit of em instrument of ratification^ acceptance, approval or accession ;
any reservation or withdrawal in accordance with article 17;
any communication made by an organization in accordance with paragraph 4(c) of article 18;
the entry into force of this Convention;
the entry into force of any amendment to this Convention; and any denunciation made under article 21•
The original of this Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall he deposited, with the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency who shall send certified copies thereof to all States*
 IH WITNESS WHEBBOF, the ttndersigned, being duly authorized, have Bigned this Convention, opened for signature at Vienna and at New York on 3 March 1980, <
Levels of Physical Protection to be Applied in Intenational Transport or Kuclear Material as Categorized in Annex IX ' ■ '
X. Levelsofphysicalprotectionfornuclearmaterialduringstosageincidental to international nuclear transport include:
la) ForCategoryIIImaterials,storagewithinanareatowhichaccess is controllea;
fb) ForCategoryIImaterials,storagewithinanareaunderconstant eurVeillance by guards or electronic devices, surrounded by a physical barrier with a limited noaber of points of entry under appropriate control or any area with an equivalent level of physical protection
(cj ForCategoryImaterial,storagewithinaprotectedareaasdefined'for
Category XI above, to which, in addition, access is restricted to persons
whose trustworthiness has been deterained, and which is under surveillance
by guards who are in close cciMnmication with appropriate response forces*
Specific measures taken in this context should have as their object the
detection and'prevention of any assault, unauthorized access or unauthorized removal of material*
receiver, and carrier, and prior agreement between natural or legal persons subject to the jurisdiction and regulation of exporting and importing states, specifying time, place and procedures for transferring transport responsibility; ,
(b) ForCategoryImaterials,transportationshalltakeplaceunderspecial precautions- identified above for transportation of Category II and
HI materials, and in addition, under constant surveillance by escorts and under conditions which assure close communication with
ror natural uranijia other than in the fora of ore or ore–residue, transportation protection for quantities exceeding: kilograma U shall include advance notification of shipsent specifying code of transport, ezpected tine of arrival and confirmation of receipt
of shipment*
2 k* or more
Looa thon 2 kg but moro than
500 g or lcao but more than 15 g
I kg or leoo but moro than 15 g
Looothan10kg but moro than 1 kg
10 kg or moro
500 g or looo but moro than 15 g
Irradiated fuel
2 kg or more
- uranium enriched "to 20$ or more
- uranismenrichedto10$ *aJ but looo than 20$ .
- uraniumenrichedabovonatural, but looo than 10$ 235U
Looo then 5 kg ' butmorothan•
Looo than 2 kg but moro than
Dopletod or natural
uranium, thorium or low-enriched fuel
(leso than 10$ ,/ / fioQile content)-'-^
o/ All plutonium oxcept that with iootoplo ooncontration excooding bO$ In plutonluo-2jo»
b/ Hatorial not irradiated in a roaotor or material irradiator in a ro&otor but witn a radiation level equal to or .leoo than 100 rads/hour at one motre unQhieldod,
o/ Quant it ieo not foiling in Category IH and natural uranium tihuuld bo protected 4n accordance with prudent management praotice.
•ιΛ d/ Although this levol of proteotion ia recommondod, it would be opon to States, upon
evaluation of the opcoiflb circumotanoeo, to aoeign a different category of phyaical - protootion *
e/ Other fuel which by virtue of ito original fiooilo material content io olaooified as Category I pnd II boforo irradiation may be reduced one category lovel whilo the radiation lovul from the fuel loxooodo 100 rado/hour at ono metre unohieldod*
approving the conclusion by the Commission
of the International Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community and in particular the second paragraph
of Article 101 thereof.
Having regard to the Commission draft ,
Whereas the Commission has. in conformity with the Council 0
directives, negotiated the International Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material /
Whereas, therefore, the conclusion of the said Convention by the Commission should be approved ;
The conclusion by the Commission of the International Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material is hereby approved.
 Declaration to be made by the Commission on behalf of EURATOM when signing the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
At present the following States are members of the European Atomic Energy Community :
Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
The Community declares that Articles 7 to 13 of the Convention do not apply to it.
sations internationales;
ii) seprêtentassistancesilademandeenestfaite;
hat .
Meeting of Governmental Representatives to consider the Drafting of a Contention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
'The Meeting of Governmental Representative to Consider the Drafting
of a Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear^Material met '
in Vienna at the Headquarters of the International Atomic -Energy » Agency from 31 October to 10 November 1977»' from,10 to 20 April 1978, from5"to16Februaryandfrom15"to26October1979* Informal.' consultations between Governmental Representatives took place
from 4 to 7 September 1978 and from 24 to 25 September 1979*
Representatives of fifty eight States and one organization participated,
namely, representatives ofs
Germany,< Federal Republic of ' Greece
Guatemala . Holy See
Italy .
Korea,' Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahariya
GermanDemocraticRepublic Pakistan-
Union of Soviet Socialikt Republics United Arab Dnirates
United Kingdom*\>f Great Britain and Northern Ireland
United States of America
The following States and international organizations participated as observers:
- European Atomic Energy Community
NuclearEnergyAgencyoftheOrganisationforEconomic Co-operation and Development
4,'' ThemeetingelectedAmbassadorD.L.SiazonJr. (Philippines)as Chairman. ForthemeetingsinApril1978andFebruary1979 Mr. R.A. Estrada-Oyuela (Argentina) was elected Chairman.
5. The Meeting elected as Vice-Chairmen:
Mr. K. Willnhn of the German Democratic Republic, who at the meeting
in Fehrwy 1979 «as succeeeded by Mr. H. Fabold of the German Democratic
Mr. R.J.S. Hairy, 'Netherlands, who at the meeting of October 1979 was
Mr. R.A. Estrada-Oyuela, Argentina, who at the meeting of October 1979
was succeded.byMr.L.A.OlivieriofArgentina. ^
 Mr. L.W. Herron (Australia) was elected Rapporteur. For the meeting in October 1979 Mr.- N.R. Snith (Australia) was Elected Rapporteur.
Secretariat services were provided by the International Atomic
Energy Agency. .The Director General of the Agency was represented »
by the Director of the Legal Division of the Agency, Mr. D.M. Edwards and, in succession to him, Mr. L.W. Herron.
The 'Meeting set up the following groups : "·-
(a) Working Group on Technical Issues 1 "Chairman: Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands
Working Group on Legal Issues
Working Group on Scope of Convention
Chairman: Mr. K. Willuhn, German Democratic Republic
Members: Representatives of Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Prance, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Qatar, Tunisia ,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of America.
The Meeting had before it. the following documents: - .''-''
(a) ' Draft Convention-on–the. Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials, """Facilities and Transports* as contained in document CPNM/l. !
The Meeting completed consideration of a Convention, the text of which is attached as Annex I. Certain delegations expressed reservations with regard to particular provisions in the text. These are recorded in the documents and in the Daily Reports of the Meeting. It was agreed that the text will be referred by - delegations to their .authorities .
The Meeting recommended that the text of the Convention be transmitted for information to the Twenty–third General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
The Convention will^ . . in accordance with its terms^be
opened for signature from 3 March 1980 at the Headquarters of the
International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York.
IAEA Document INFCIRC/225»Rev.l: The Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
IAEA Do<rument INFCIRC/254s Communications Received from . Certain Member States regarding Guidelines for the Export of Nuclear Material , Equipment or Technology
Vienna, 26 October 1979 Chairman of the Meeting
Signed by the .delegations of:
The States Parties to this Convention,
Recognising the right of all States to develop and apply nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and their legitimate interests in the potential benefits to be derived from the peaceful application of nuclear energyv
Convinced of the need for facilitating international co-operation in the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
Desiring to avert the potential dangers posed by the unlawful talcing and use of nuclear material.
Convinced that offences relating to nuclear material are a matter of grave concern and that there is an urgent need to adopt appropriate and effective measures to ensure the prevention, detection and punishment of ' such offences , .
. Aware of the need for international co-operation to establish, in conformity with the national law of each State Party and with this Convention, effective measures for the physical protection of nuclear material.
Convinced that this Convention should facilitate the safe transfer of nuclear material, /
Stressing also the importance of the physical protection of nuclear material in domestic use, storage and transport, 't '
•s Recognizing the importance of effective physical protection of nuclear material, used for military 'purposes*, and understanding that such material is and. will continue to be accorded stringent physical protection,
Have agreed as follows:
 Article 1 For the purposes or this Convention:
(a) Hnuclear material" means plutonium except that with isotopic concentration exceeding 80% in plutonium–238; urajiitm–233; uranium enriched in the isotopes 235 or 233? uranium containing the mixture of isotopes as occurring in nature other than in the form of ore or ore-residue; any material containing one or more of the foregoing;
(b) "uranium enriched in. the isotope 235 or 233** means uranium containing the isotopes 235 or 233 or both in an amount such that the abundance ratio of the sum of these isotopes to the
isotope 238 is greater than the ratio of the isotope . 235 "to the isotope 238 occurring in nature;
"international nuclear transport" means the carriage of - a consignment of nuclear material by any means of transportation intended to go beyond the territory of the State where the shipment originates beginning with the departure from a facility of the shipper in that State and ending with the arrival at a facility of the receiver within the State of ultimate destination* - '
1* This Convention shall apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in international nuclear transport*
2* Withtheexceptionofarticles3and4andparagraph3ofarticle5f•: this Convention shall also applj to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in domestic us8, storage and transport*
3* Apart from the commitments expressly undertaken "by States Parties in the articles covered "by paragraph 2 with respect to nuclear material
used for peaceful purposes while in domestic use, storage and transport, nothing in this Convention shall "be interpreted as affecting the sovereign
rights of a State regarding the domestic use, storage and transport of such nuclear material* : . -
Each State Party shall take appropriate steps within the framework of-
its national law and consistent with international law to ensure aa far as
practicable that, during international nuclear transport, nuclear material within its territory, or on "board a ship or aircraft under its jurisdic- '• tion insofax as such ship or aircraft is engaged in the transport to or from that State, is protected at the levels described in Annex I*
1. Each State Party shall not export or authorize the export of nuclear material unless the State Party has received assurances that such material will be protected during the international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I.
2* Each State Party shall not import or authorize the import of nuclear material from a State not party to this Convention unless the State Party
has received assurances that such material will during the international nuclear transport he protected at the levels described in ArvnA-r I.
3* A State Party Bhall not allow the transit of its territory by land or internal water-ways or through its airports or seaports of nuclear material between States that are not parties to this Convention unless the State Party
ha3 received assurances as far as practicable that this nuclear material will be protected during international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I.
4* Each State Party shall apply within the framework of its national .
law the levels of physical protection described in Annex I to nuclear material being transported from a part of that State to another,part of the - same State through international waters or airspace*
5. The State Party responsible for receiving assurances "that the nuclear 1•1*
material will be protected at the levels described in Annex I according to , paragraphs 1 to 3 shall identify and inform in advance States which the nuclear material is expected to transit by land or internal waterways, or ; whose airports or seaports it is expected to enter®
6. The responsibility for obtaining assurances referred to in paragraph 1 may be transferred, by mutual agreement, to the State Party involved in the transport as the importing State*
7, Eothing in this article shall be interpreted as in any way affecting the territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction of a State, including that over its. airspace and territorial sea*
X. States Parties shall identify and make known to each other directly
or through the International Atomic Energy Agency their central authority and point of contact having responsibility for physical protection of
nuclear material and for co-ordinating recovery and response operations in the event of any unauthorized removal, use or alteration of nuclear material or in the event of credible threat thereof.
2. In the case of theft, robbezy or any other unlawful taking of nuclear material or of credible threat thereof, States Parties shall, in accordance with their national law, provide cooperation aatfl assistance to the tna-r-immn
feasible extent in the recovery and protection of such material to any State that so roquest3. • In particular:
a State Party shall take appropriate steps to inform as soon as
possible, other States^which. appear to it to be concerned, of any theft, robbery or other 'unlawful taking of nuclear material or
credible threat thereof and to inform, where appropriate, inter­ national organizations;
as appropriate, the States Parties concerned shall exchange information with each other or international organizations with
a view to protecting threatened nuclear material, verifying the integrity of the shipping container, or recovering unlawfully taken nuclear materials and shall:
(i) co-ordinate their efforts through diplomatic and other agreed channels ;
(iii) ensure the return of nuclear material stolen or missing as a consequence of the above-mentioned events.
The means of implementation of this co-operation shall be determined by the States Parties concerned,
3. States Parties shall co-operate and consult as appropriate, with each
other directly or through international organizations, w.th a view to obtain­ ing guidance on the design, maintenance and improvement of systems of physical protection of nmlear material in international transport.
1. States Parties shall take appropriate measures consistent with their s national law to protect the confidentiality of any information which they ; receive in confidence "by virtue of the provisions of this Convention from another State Party or-through participation in an activity carried out for the implementation of this Convention . If States Parties , provide information
to international organizations in confidence, steps shall' be taken to ensure that the confidentiality of such information is protected.
. 2. States Parties shall not be required by this Convention to provide any information which they are not permitted to communicate pursuant to national law or which would jeopardize the security of the State concerned or the. physical protection of nuclear material.
 1# The intentional commission of: •^
' (ii) to commit an offence described in sub-paragraph (b) in order ^ , to compel a natural or legal person, international organiza­
tion or State to do or to refrain from doing any act;
(f) an attempt to commit any.offence described in paragraphs (a),
an act without lawful authority which constitutes the receipt, possession, use, transfer, alteration, disposal or dispersal of nuclear material and which causes or 'is likely to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial damage to property ;
a theft or robbery of nuclear material;
an embezzlement or fraudulent obtaining of nuclear material;
an act constituting a demand for nuclear material by threat or use of force or by any other form of intimidation;
a threat: ■
(i) to use nuclear material to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial property damage, or
. (b) or (c); and
(g) an act which constitutes participation in any offence described >'inparagraphs(a)to(f) • • t
ghal 1 be "aria a punishable offence by each State Party under its national law.
2. Each State Party make the offences described in this article punishable by appropriate penalties which take into account their grave
1* Each State Party shall take such .measures as may be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth- is article 7 in
the following cases: „ ^ – :
(a) when the offence is committed, in the territory of that State or on "board a ship or aircraft registered in that State?
(b) when the alleged offender is a national of that State.
3. This Convention does not exclude any criminal jurisdiction exercised 'in accordance with national lawe
4. In addition to the States Parties mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2, each State Party niay, consistent with international law, establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 7 when it is involved in international nuclear transport as the exporting or importing State* . v
to establish its jurisdiction over these offences in cases where the alleged offender is present in its territory and it does not extradite him pursuant to article 11to any of the States mentioned in paragraph 1.
Each State Party shall likewise take such measures as may be necessary
Upon "being satisfied that the circumstances so warrant, the State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present shall take
appropriate measures, includifeg detention, under its national law to ensure his presence for the purpose of prosecution or extradition. Measures taken according to this article shall "be notified without delay to the States required to establish jurisdiction pursuant to. article 8 and, 'where appropriate, all other States concerned®■
The State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present " shall, if it does not extradite him, submit, without exception whatsoever and without -undue delay, the case to its competent authorities for the purpose of prosecution, through proceedings in accordance with the laws of that State. - -•
1. The offences in article 7 shall be deemed to "be included as
extraditable offences in any extradition treaty existing "between States Parties. . States Parties undertake to include those offences
as epctraditable offences' in every future extradition treaty to "be concluded "between them.
2. If a State Party which makes extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty receives a request for extradition from another
State Party with which it has no extradition treaty, it "may at its' option consider this Convention as the legal "basis for extradition in respect %of those offences. Extradition shall "be subject to the other conditions provided "by the law of the requested State.
>. .■ '-•('. 3. StatesParties which do not make extradition conditional on the
existence of a treaty shall recognize those offences as extraditable „ offences "between themselves subject to the conditions provided "by the law of the requested State*. '
4. Each of the offences shall "be treated, for the purpose of extra­ dition between States Parties, as if it had "been committed not only in the place in which it occurred "but also in the territories of
States Parties required to establish their jurisdiction m accordance
with paragraph 1 of. article 8, 1
Anypersonregardingwhomproceedingsaxe"beingcarriedoutincon- / nection with any of the offences set forth in article 7 shall be guaranteed fair treatment at all stages of the proceedings.
1, States Pax-ties shall afford,one another the greatest meaaiaro of assis­ tance in connection with, criminal proceedings "brought ia .respect of the offences set forth in article 7, incl'ading the s-apply of evidence at their disposalnecessaryfortheproceedings® Thela»oftheStaterequested shall apply i» all cases®.
2« Theprovisions.ofparagraph1shallnotaffectobligationsttaderaay other treaty, "bilateral or multilateral, which governs or will govern, ia vhole or ia part, msfcTaal assistance ia criminal matters*
1. Each State Party snail inform the depositary of its laws and regulations whichgiveeffecttothisConvention. Thedepositaryshallcommunicatesuch information periodically to all States Parties,
2. The State Party where an alleged offender is prosecuted shall, wherever- practicable, first communicate the final ctrtcome of the proceedings ;o the Statesdirectlyconcerned,' iEheStatePartyshallalsocommunicatethefinal outcome to the depositary who shall inform all States.
3» Where an offence involves nuclear material 12sed for peaceful purposes in domestic use, storage or transportj and "both the alleged offender and the nuclear material remain in the territory .of the State Party in ■which
the offence was committed, nothing in this Convention shall be interpreted as requiring that State Party'to provide information concerning criminal proceedings arising out of such aa offence. " •
The Annexes constitute an integral' part
1» A conference of States Parties shall be convened by the depositary five years after the entry into force of this Convection to review the implementation of the Convention and its adequacy as concerns the preamble,
the whole of the operative part and the annexes in the light of the then prevailing situation,
2* At intervals of not less than five years thereafter, the majority of States Parties say obtain, by submitting a proposal to this effect to
the depositary^ the convening of further conferences with the same objective *
1. In the event of a dispute "between two or more States Parties
concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention, such^States Parties shall consult with a view to the settlement of the dispute "by negotiation, or "by any other peaceful means* of settling disputes acceptable to all parties to the dispute.
2. Any dispute of this character which cannot "be settled in the
manner prescribed in paragraph 1 shall, at the request of any party to such dispute, be submitted to arbitration or referred to the
International Court of Justice for decision. Where a dispute is
submitted to arbitration, if, within six months from the date of r»
the request, the parties to the dispute arevunable to agree on the organization of the arbitration, a party may request the President of the International Court of Justice or the Secretary-General of the United Nations to appoint one or more arbitrators* In case of conflicting requests by the parties to the dispute, the request to - the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall have priority.
3. Each State Party may at the time, of signature, ratification, acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto declare that it does not consider itself bound by either or both of the dispute settlement procedures provided for in paragraph 2.
The other States Parties shall not be bound by a dispute settle­ ment procedure provided for in paragraph 2, with respect to a State Party which has made a reservation to that procedure.
4» Any State Party which has made a reservation in accordance with paragraph - 3 may at any time withdraw that reservation by notification to the depositary# _ •
1», ;> This Convention shall "be Open for signature by' all States at the Headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and at
the Headquarters of the United Nations in New- York froa 3 Karch 1980 until its entry into force.
2. This Convention is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by 'the signatory States. • V
3* After its entry isto force', this Convention will be open for accession by all States. .
4-. > (a) 'This Convention shall be open.for signature or accession by
international organisations and regional organisations of an integration or other nature, "provided that any such organisation is constituted-by sovereign States and has competence in respect of the negotiation, conclusion apDlication of international agreements in matters covered by this Convention.
(b) Inmatterswithintheircompetence,suchorganisationsshall,on
their own behalf, exercise the rights and fulfil the responsibilities which i...
this Convention attributes to States Parties.
(c) Whenbecomingparty"tothisConventionsuchanorganisationshall communicate to the depositary a declaration indicating which States are . . members thereof and which articles of this Convention do not apply to it.
(d) Suchanorganisationshallnotholdanyvoteadditionaltothoseof its Member States.
5. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or.accession shall be depositedwiththedepositary. v „• ;
1, This Convention shall 'enter into force on the thirtieth day
following the date of deposit of the twenty first instrament of ratification, acceptance oc approval with the depositary®
2. For each State ratifying^ accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention after the date of deposit of the twenty first instrument
of ratification, acceptance or approval, the Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the deposit "by such. State of its instrament of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession.
1. Without prejudice to article 16 s. State Party may propose amendments
to this Convention. The proposed amendment, shall "be submitted to the depositary who shall circulate it immediately to all States Parties* If a majority of States Parties request the depositary to convene a conference to consider the proposed amendments, the depositary shall invite all States
Parties to attend such a conference to "begin not sooner than thirty days after the invitations are issued* Any amendment adopted at the conference "by
a two-thirds majority of all States Parties shall "be promptly circulated "by the depositary to all States Parties. '
2. The amendment shall enter into force for each State Party that deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendment on 'the thirtieth day after the date on which two thirds of the States Parties
have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval with the depositary*. Thereafter, the amendment shall enter into force for any other State Party on the day on which that State Party deposits its instrument of ratification,' acceptance or approval of the amendment,, *
1. A-»y Stata Party may denounce this Convention by written notification to the depositary. ' -
2# Denunciation shall take effect one htandred and eighty days following the data on which notification is received by the depositary.
The depositary shall promptly notify all States of:
(a) each signature of this Convention; .
("b) each deposit of an instrument of ratification acceptance, approval or accession;
(c) any reservation or withdrawal in accordance with article 17;
(d) any communication made "by an organization in accordance with paragraph 4(c) of article 18; ' _ . ' ,
(e) the entry into force of this Convention;
(f) the entry into force of any amendment to this Convention; and
(g) any denunciation made under article 21*
The original of this Convention, of which the -Arabics Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall "be deposited with the Director General of tha International Atomic Energy Agency who shall send certified copies thereof to all States.
 HI WITHESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, have signed this Convention, opened for sigaature at Vienna and at Hew York on3March1980." ; -^. - V
•wis of Physical protection to-be Applied in International Transport or - _––_ NucleariiaterialasCategorizedinAnnexIi ,
Levels of physical protection for nuclear nateriai during storage incidental
;0 international rncleas- transport includes . . "
ta) ForCategoryIIImaterials, storagewithinanareatowhichaccess
^b) ForCategoryIImaterials, storagewithinanareaunderconstant/ - • surveillance "by guards or electronic devices, surrounded "by a physical
"barrier with a limited nunber of points of entry under appropriate . control or any area with an equivalent level of physical protectionj
(c) ForCategoryIcaterial, storagewithinaprotectedareaasdefined_ror Category H above, to which, in addition, access is restricted to persons
" ' whosetrustworthinesshasbeendetermined,andwhichisundersurveillance by guards who are in close conniunication vith appropriate response forces.
Specific measures taken in this context should have as their object the detection and'prevention of any assault, unauthorized access or
2 Levelsofphysicalprotectionfornuclearmaterialduringinternational transport include* ' ^
•'"*receiver, andcarrier/and"prioragreementbetweennaturalorlegal personssubjecttothejurisdictionandregulationofexportingand ^
'■ importingstates, specifyingtime, placeandproceduresfortransferring - transport responsibility, , „
tt) ForCUrXTI transportationshalltakeplaceunder precautions- identified above for transportation of Category IX, an
HI materials, and in addition, under, constant surveillance trr escorts and under conditions vhicl. assure close ce»mni=ation vitH
(cj ror natural uranium other than in the form of ore- or ore–residue, transportation protection for quantities exceeding 500 kilograms U shall ^include advance notification of shipcent specifying mode of transport , expected tiae of arrival and confirmation of receipt
of shipment.
Loos than 2 kg /-
tut moro than /
Lobø thf/ 5 * but moro than 1 kg
10 Y t or more
Lodo th'/i 2 kg but mr,va than 500 g
Depleted or natural uraniumt thorium or low-onrichod fuol
(leso than 10# fiooile content)-'-'
500 g or less but more than 15 g
1 kg or leoo but moro than 15 g
Leoo than 10 kg but moro than 1 kg
10 kg or moro
"500 g or looo but .moro than 15 ff '
Irradiated fuol
- uranium enriched abovo natural, but looo than 10# 235jj
2 kg or moro
- uranium enrichedto 20$ or moro
- uranium enriched to 10# 2^U
but loco than 20#
2 kg or moro
"5 kg or moro
a/ All plutoniura oxccpt that with lootopio concentration excooding B0£ in plutoniua-2j8. ZJ.•. •.
Matorlalnotirradiatodinftroaotorormaterialirradiatedinaroaotortutwitna
radiation level equal to or .looo than 100 rade/hour
Quantitieo not failing in' Category III and natural uranium ohuuld bo protected in accordance with prudent management practice . <
Although thio lovol of proteotion is recommondod, it would "be opon to Stateorupon evaluation of the opeoifib circuraatanoeo, to aooign a differonl! category of phyoical
Other fuel vhlch "by virtue of its original fiooilo material content is olaooified ao Catogory I |md II Woro irradiation may be reduced one category lovol whilo the radiation lovol from tho fuel/bxooodo 100 rado/hour at ono metro unohieldod.
Emirats arabes -unis '
sations internationales;
ii) seprêtentassistancesilademandeenestfaite;
The Meeting of Governmental Representativ® to Consider the Drafting of a Convention on the Physical Protection -of Nuclear Material met
in Vienna at the Headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency from 31 October to 10 November* 1977,' from 10 to 20 April 1978,
. from 5 "to 16 February and from 15 to 26 October 1979• Informal consultations between Governmental Representatives took place . from 4 to 7 September 1978 and from 24 to 25 September 1979*
• Representatives of fifty eight States and one organization participated , namely, representatives of:
Netherlands
Meeting of Governmental Representatives "to consider the Drafting of a Contention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
Austna Holy See •• Belgiura , . Hungary
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics United Arab Bnirates ~ '
United Kingdom^of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
United States of America
The following States and international organizations participated
Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development .
The meeting elected Ambassador D.L. Siazon Jr. (Philippines) as Chairman.; ForthemeetingsinApril1978andFebruary1979 Mr. R.A. Estrada-Oyuela (Argentina) was elected Chairman.
The Meeting elected as Vice-Chairmen:
Mr. K. Willuhn of the German Democratic Republic, who at the meeting
in February 1979 was succeeeded by Mr. H. Rabold of the German Democratic Republic; •< . \ .
Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands, who at the meeting of October 1979 was succeeededbyMr., G.DahlhoffoftheFederalRepublicofGermany;
Mr. R.A. Estrada-Oyuela. Argentina, who at the meeting of October 1979 was succeded . by Mr. L.A. Olivieri of Argentina . . '
 Mr. L.W. Herron (Australia) was elected Rapporteur. For the meeting in October 1979 Mr*- N.R. Snith (Australia) was elected Rapporteur.
Secretariat services were provided by the International Atomic
Energy Agency. The Director General of the Agency was represented
by the Director of the Legal Division of the Agency, Mr. D.M. Edwards and, in succession to him, Mr. L.W. Herron.
The'Meeting set up the following groups;
(a) Working Group on Technical Issues "Chairman: Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands
Working Group on Scope of Convention
Chairman: Mr. K. Willuhn, German Democratic Republic ,
Members: Representatives of Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, • Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Prance, Federal Republic of
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of ' - America. .
The Meeting had before it, the following documents: *
(a) \ Draft Convention on–the. Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials " Facilities aad Transports, as contained in document CPNM/l. 5
(b) IAEA Document INFCIRC/2251Rev.1: The Physical Protection of . Nuclear Material
(c)_ IAEADocumentINFCIRC/254i CommunicationsReceivedfrom Certain Member States regarding Guidelines for the .Export of Nuclear Material, Equipment or Technology
The Meeting completed consideration of a Convention, the text of which is attached as Annex I. Certain delegations expressed reservations with regard to particular provisions in the text. These are recorded in the documents and in the Daily Reports of . theMeeting. Itwasagreedthatthetextwillbereferredby delegations to their authorities.
The Meeting recommended that the text of the Convention be transmitted for information to the Twenty–third General Conference of the • International Atomic Energy Agency.
The 'Convention will^ . . in accordance with its terms^be
opened for signature from 3 March 1980 at the Headquarters of the
International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and at the Headquarters •of the United Nations in New York. ■
Vienna, 26 October 1979 Chairman of the Meeting
Signed by the .delegations of:
The States Parties to this Convention.
Recognizing the right of all States to develop and apply nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and their legitimate interests in the potential benefits to be derived from the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
Convinced -of the need for facilitating international co-operation in the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
•Desiring to avert -the potential dangers posed by the unlawful taking and use of nuclear materialj .
Convinced that offences relating to nuclear material are a matter of grave concern and that there is an urgent need to adopt appropriate and effective measures to ensure the prevention, detection and punishment of such offences, . - ' >
. Aware of the need for international co-operation to establish, in conformity with the national law of each State Party and with this Convention, effective measures for the physical protection of nuclear material.
Convinced that this Convention should facilitate the safe transfer of nuclear material, > - ~
Stressing also the importance of the physical protection of nuclear material in domestic use, storage and transport, ' .
\ Recognizing the importance of effective physical protection of nuclear material used for military purposes*, and understanding that such material is and will continue to be accorded, stringent physical protection,
Have agreed as- follows:
 Article 1 For the purposes or this Convention:
(a) '"nuclear material" means plutonium except ^that with isotopic concentration exceeding 80$ in plutonium-238; uranium-233; uranium enriched, in the isotopes 235 or 233; uranium containing the mirfcure of isotopes as occurring in nature other than in the form of ore or ore-residue; any material containing one or more of the foregoing;
(b) "uranium enriched i.n the isotope 235 or 233** means uranium containing the isotopes 235 or 233 or.both in an amount such that the abundance ratio of the sum of these isotopes to the
isotope 23d is greater than the ratio of the isotope '235 to the isotope 238 occurring in nature;
"international nuclear transport" means the carriage of a
. consignment of nuclear material by any means of transportation
intended to go beyond the territory of the State where the shipment originates beginning with the departure from a facility of the shipper in that State and ending with the
, arrival at a facility of the receiver within the State of ultimate destination,
1* This Convention shall apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in international nuclear transport.
2. With the exception of articles 3 and 4 and paragraph 3 of article 5, . this Convention shall also apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in domestic use, storage and transport*
3* Apart from the commitments expressly undertaken by States Parties
in the articles covered "by paragraph 2 with respect to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while, la domestic use, storage and transport, . nothing in this Convention shall "be interpreted as affecting the sovereign rights of a State regarding the domestic use, storage and transport of . such nuclear material.
 Each State Party shall take appropriate step3 within the fraaework of its national law and consistent with international law to 'ensure as far as
practicable that, during Internationa], nuclear transport, nuclear material within its territory^ or on "board a ship or aircraft under its jurisdic­ tion insofar as such ship or aircraft is engaged in the transport to or from that State, is protected at the levels described in Annex I.
1* Each State Party shall not export or authorize the export of nuclear
material imless the State Party has received assurances that such material
will be protected during the international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I*
2. Each State Party shall not import or authorize the import of nuclear material from a State not party to this Convention unless the State Party
has received assurances that such material will during the international nuclear transport "be protected at the levels described in Armat I.
3* A State.Party shall' not allow the transit of its territory by land or internal waterways or through its airports or seaports of nuclear material between States that are not parties to this Convention unless the State Party has received assurances as far as practicable that this nuclear material
will be protected during international nuclear transport at the levels described in I.
4. Each State Party shall apply within the framework of its national
law the levels of physical protection described in Annex I to nuclear material being transported from a part of that State to another part of the - same State through international waters or airspace.
5. The State Party responsible for receiving assurances that the nuclear material will be protected at the levels described in Annex I according to , paragraphs 1 to 3 shall identify and inform in advance States i&ich the nuclear material is expected to transit by land or internal waterways, or whose airports or seaports it is expected to enter*
6. The responsibility for obtaining assurances referred to in paragraph 1 may be transferred, by mxctual agreement, to the State Party involved in the transport as the importing State.
7. Nothing in this article shall be interpreted as in any way affecting the territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction of a State, including that over its. airspace and territorial sea. ,
X. StatesPartiesshallidentifyandmake'knowntoeachotherdirectly
or through the International Atomic Energy Agency their central authority and point of contact having responsibility for physical protection of
nuclear material and for co-ordinating recovery and response operations in the event of any unauthorized removal, use or alteration of nuclear material or in the event of credible threat thereof.
2. In the case of theft, robbery or any other unlawful taking of nuclear
material or of credible threat thereof, States Parties shall, in accordance with their national law, provide co-operation and assistance to the ""im-n^
feasible extent in the recovery and protection of such material to any State that' so requests*. ' In particular:
- possible, other States^which.appear to it to be concerned, of any theft, robbery or other unlawful taking of nuclear material or
credible threat thereof and to inform, where appropriate, inter– . - nationalorganizations;
information with each other or international organizations with
a view to protecting threatened nuclear material, verifjfing the
integrity of the shipping container, or recovering unlawfully
taken nuclear material* and shall: /•
(i) co-ordinatetheireffortsthroughdiplomaticandotheragreed channels : .
(iii) ensurethereturnofnuclearmaterialstolenormissingas ■ a consequence of the above-mentioned events*
The means of implementation of this co–operation shall be determined by the ■ States Parties concerned.
3. States Parties co-operate and consult as appropriate, with each
other directly or through international organizations, with a view to obtain- ' ing guidance on the design, maintenance and improvement of systems of physical protection of nuclear material in international transport#
1. States Parties shall take appropriate measures consistent with their , national lavr to protect the confidentiality of any information which they receive in confidence "by virtue of the provisions of this Convention from
another State Party or through participation in an activity carried out for the implementation of this Convention. If States Parties provide information to international organizations in confidence, steps shall' be taken to ensure
that the confidentiality of such information is protected. .•' *
2. States Parties shall not "be required by this Convention to provide any information which they are not permitted to communicate pursuant to national law or which would jeopardize the security of the State concerned or the. physical protection of nuclear material.
(i) tousenuclearmaterialtocausedeathorseriousinjury' to any person or substantial property damage, or
(ii) to commit an offence described in sub-paragraph (b) in order to compel a natural or legal person, international organiaa- tion or State to do or to refrain from doing any act;
(b) or (c); and
anactwhichconstitutesparticipationinanyoffencedescribed in paragraphs (a) to (f)
a punishable offence by each State Party under its national
„• The intentional commission of:
(a). anactwithoutlawfulauthoritywhichconstitutesthereceipt,
, . possession, use, transfer, alteration, disposal or dispersal of nuclear material and which causes or is likely to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial damage to property;
'(d) anactconstitutingademandfornuclearmaterialbythreator use of force or by any other form of intimidation;
(e) - a threats \♦
punishable by appropriate penalties which taks into account their grave nature*
State Party T make the offences described in thi3 article
'1.. Each<6tatePartyshalltakesuchmeasuresasmay"benecessaryto' establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth- in article 7 in the following cases: „
(a) whentheoffenceiscommittedintheterritoryofthatState or on board a ship or aircraft registered in that State;
(b) whentheallegedoffenderisanationalofthatState.
2. Each State Party shall likewise take such measures as may be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over these offences in cases where the alleged offender is present in its territory and it does not extradite him pursuant to article 11to any of the States mentioned in paragraph 1. ,
3. This Convention does not exclude any criminal jurisdiction exercised 'in accordance with national law. , ,
4. In addition to the States Parties mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2,
each State Party tiay. consistent with international law, establish its .jurisdiction over the offences sat forth in article 7 when it is
involved in international nuclear transport as -the exporting or importing State* '
Upon "being satisfied that the circumstances so warrant, the State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present shall take appropriate measures, including detention, under its national law to ensure his presence for the purpose of prosecution or extradition. Measures taken according to this article shall he notified without delay to "the States required to establish jurisdiction pursuant to article 8 aad. where appropriate, all other States concerned*
The State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present
shall, if it does not extradite him, . cobnut, without, exception whatsoever <>
and without undue delay, the case to its competent authorities for the purpose of prosecution, through proceedings in accordance with the laws of that State.' . • '
1. The offences in article 7 shall "be deemed to be included as
extraditable offences in any extradition treaty^existing between. States Parties, States Parties undertake to include those offences
as extraditable offences in every future extradition treaty to be concluded between them.
2. If a State Party which makes extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty receives a request for extradition from another State Party with which it has no extradition treaty, it may ai its' option consider this Convention as the legal basis for extradition
in respect 'of those offences. Extradition shall be subject,, to the
other conditions provided by the law. of the requested State. -(•
3.; . StatesParties which do not make extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty shall recognize those offences as extraditable , offences between themselves subject to the conditions provided by the
law of..the requested State*, >
4. Each of the offences shall be treated, for the purpose of extra­ dition between States Parties, as if it had been committed not only
in the place in which it occurred but algo in the territories of i?he
States Parties required to establish their, jurisdiction in accordance with paragraph 1 of. article 8. 1
Any person regarding whom proceedings are being carried out in con- / section with any of the offences set forth in article 7 shall be guaranteed fair treatment at all stages of the proceedings.
1, States Parties nhftil afford one another the greatest measure of assis~ tance in connection with, criminal proceedings "brought in respect of the offences set forth in article 7> including the snpply of evidence at their disposal necessary for the proceedings. The law of the State requested
apply ia all cases*
2, Theprovisions.ofparagraph1shallnotaffectobligationsunderany other treatyf "bilateral or multilateral, which governs or will govern, in uhole or in part, mutual assistance in criminal matters.
1. Each State Party shall inform the depositary of its laws and regulations which give effect to this Convention. The depositary shall communicate such information periodically to sill States Parties.
2. The State Party where an alleged offender is prosecuted shall, wherever' practicable) first communicate the final outcome of the proceedings to the States directly concerned. The State Party shall also communicate the final . outcome to the depositary who shall inform all States.
3. Where an offence involves nuclear material used for peaceful purposes in domestic user storage or transport, and "both the alleged offender and the nuclear material remain in the territory .of the State Party in which . the offence was committed, nothing in this Convention shall "be interpreted as requiring that State Party to provide information concerning criminal
proceedings arising out of such an offence. v -
1* A conference of States Parties shall be convened "by the depositary
five years after the entry into force of this Convention to' review the ♦i
implementation of the Convention and its adequacy as concerns the preamble, the whole of the operative part and the annexes in the light of the then prevailing sitxsation. -
2. At intervals of not less than five years thereafter, the majority of States Parties may obtain, "by stshmitting a proposal to this effect to
the depositary, the convening of further conferences vith the i same objective.. •'
1. In the event of a dispute "between two or more States Parties
concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention, such States Parties shall consult with a view to the settlement
of the dispute "by negotiation, or by any other peaceful means of settling disputes acceptable to all parties to the dispute.
2. Any dispute of this character which cannot "be -settled in the
manner prescribed in paragraph 1 shall, at the request of ary party to such dispute, "be submitted to arbitration of referred to the International Court of Justice for decision. Where a dispute is * submitted to arbitration, if, within six months from the date of
the request, the parties to the dispute arevunable to agree on the organization of the arbitration, a party may request the President of the International Court of Justice or the Secretary-General of the United Sations to appoint one or more arbitrators. In case of conflicting requests by. the parties to the dispute, the request to - the Secretary-General of the United ITations shall have priority.
3. Each State Party may at the time of signature, ratification,
acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto declare that it does not consider itself bound by either or "both
of the dispute settlement procedures provided for in paragraph 2. • The other States Parties shall not be bound by a dispute settle­
ment procedure provided for in paragraph 2, with respact tc a State Party which has made a reservation to that procedure. ,
4* Any State Party which has jaade a reservation in. accordance with paragraph 3 may at any time withdraw xfr-.i reservation by notification to the depositary. • _
 !• Tais Convention shall be open for signature by' ell States at the Headquarters of the international Atomic 2nergy Agency in Vienna and at the Headquarters of the United 'Nations in Hew- York froa 3 Karch 1980 until its entry into force. •
2. This Convention is subject to ratification., acceptance or approval by
3* After its entry into force, this Convention will be open for accession' by'all States;: '
4. > (a) " This Convention shall be open. for signature or accession by •»•
iatemational organisations and regional organisations of an integration or other nature, "provided that any such organisation is constituted by sovereign States and- has competence in respect of the negotiation, conclusion application of international agreements in matters covered by this Convention.
(b) In matters within 'their competence-, such'organisations shall, on • / their own behalf, exercise the rights and fulfil the responsibilities which , this Convention attributes to States Parties. '. • * . v *
. (c) When becoming party to this Convention such an organisation shall comsraiicate to the depositary a declaration indicating which States are . members thereof and which articles of this Convention do not apply to it.
. . (d) Such an organisation shall not hold any vote additional to those of its Member States. .•*
5. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or,accession shall be - deposited with the depositanr. ^
1. This Convention shall •enter' into force on the thirtieth day
following the date of deposit of the twenty first instrument of ratification, acceptance oc approval with the depositary.
2. For each State ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention after the date of deposit of the twenty first" instrument . of ratification, acceptance or approval, the Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the deposit "by such State of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
1, Without prejudice to article 16 a State Party may propose amendments
to this Convention. The proposed amendment shall be submitted to the depositary who shall circulate it immediately to all States Parties. If a majority of States Parties request the depositary to convene a conference to consider the proposed amendments, the depositary shall invite all States . Parties to attend such a conference to begin not sooner than thirty days after the invitations are issued* Any amendment adopted, at the conference by a two-thirds majority of all States Parties' shall be promptly circulated by the depositary to all States Parties.
2. The amendment shall enter into force for each State Party that deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendment on 'the thirtieth day after the date on which two thirds of the States Parties
have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance- or approval with the depositary. , Thereafter, the amendment shall enter into force for any other State Party on the day on which that State Party deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendment.
1. Any State Party may denounce this Convention by written notification to the depositary.
2, Dennneiaiion shall take effect one hundred, and eighty days following the date on which notification is received "by the depositary® - •
The depositary shall promptly notify all States of:
(a) each signature, of this Convention; .
(h) each deposit of an instrument of ratification/ acceptance, approval or accession ;
(c) any reservation or withdrawal in accordance with article 17;
(d) any communication made "by an organization in accordance with paragraph 4(c) of article 18;
(e^ the entry into force of this Convention;
(f) the entry into force of any amendment to this Convention; and (g) any denunciation made under article 21»
The original of this Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinesa, English, French, Russian asd Spanish texts are equally authenticj shall be deposited with the Director General of the International i.tomic Agenc-jr who shall send certified copies thereof to all States©
 Iff WITNESS WHBiZESOF, the xmdersigned, being duly authorized, have signed this Convention, opened for signature at Vienna and at New Toxic
Tavels 'of Physical Protection to "be Applied in International Transport or – ffuclear* Material as Ca.tegorized in Aesx II
Levels of physical protection.for nuclear material l,xsi:as stoss-ga incidental
fa) ForCategoryIIImaterialsPstoragewithisasarea,towhichaccess
^*b) ForCategoryIImaterials, storagewithinanareaunderconstant surveillance lay guards or electronic devices, surrounded "by a physical
'tarrier with a limitad naaber of points of entry under appropriate " control or any area with an equivalent level of physics! protection
(c) ForCategoryIeaierial,storagewithinaprotectedareaasdefinedfor Category II above, to which, in addition, access is restricted to persons whose trustworthiness has "bean determined, and which is \snder Eurveilla=.ca
•by guards who are in'close communication with appropriate response forces® Specific measures taken in this contest should ha.va as their object the detection and*prevention of Essy assaxLit, unau'&hcrissd access or y^y^nthorized removal'of jnaterial®
(a) For.CategoryIIandIIImaterials,transportationshalltakeplace . -- underspecialprecautionsincludingpriore/rrangemfentsaxaonjsender,
redeiver> ^ carrier,' and*prior agreement Tsetveen natural or leg^l persons subject to the jurisdiction end regulation of espcrtinff and
(h) ForCategoryI»i«rUls,.ir^sp^tati^.W. placenxidovspecial precautions- identified above for transporfeiioa of Category :il and XII a&tsrisls, and ia addition, uad«,r constant survev.j-ance "by escorts and under conditions nhich assure close co«d nation Kith
for natural uraniua other than in the fora of ore- or ore-residue, transportation protection for quantities exceeding 500 kilograma U shall include advance notification of shipnent specifying node of
transport, expected tiae of arrival and confiraation of receipt of shipment. -■ .
tons than 2 kg but moro than
2 kg or moro
' or more (.1
- uranium enriohod to 10$ but looo thnn 20$
Looo than 5 *f? • but moro than •
10 kg or moro
Loan than 2 kg but moro than
2 or moro
500 g or loan but more than 15 g
1 kg or looo but moro thon 15 g
Looo than 10 kg but moro than 1 kg
10 kg or moro
500 g or looo but .moro than 15 g
- uranium onriohod abovo natural, but looo than 10$ 235U
5 kg or moro
Dopletod or naturai uranium , thorium or low-cnrichod fuol
(loon than 10$ ,/ / fioailo content)-'^
a/ All plutoniura oxccpt that with inofcopio concentration exoooding bOj& in plutonium~2j0
h/ Material not irradiated in a roaotor or material irradiated in a roaotor tut witn a radiation level equal toor.looo than 100 rads/hour at one motre unehioldod,
o/ Quantitioa not falling in Category III and natural uranium ohould bo proieoted in accordance vitlx prudent management practice.
d/ Although thia level of protection ie recommended, it would ho opon to Statoo,upon evaluation or the opeoifib circumotanoeo, to UDoign a differont category of phyaical protootion * # .
e/ Other fuel which "by virtue of ite original fiooile material content is olaooified as Category I pnd II boforo irradiation may ho reduced one category lovol whilo the radiation lovol from tho fuel 'oxooodo 100 rado/hour at onb metro unohieldod.
(Communication from the Commission to the Council)
Communication from the Commission to the Council
1. Between 17 and 26 October at.the International Atomic Energy Agency's headquarters in Vienna fi,nal negotiations took place on concluding a Convention on Physical Protection of nuclear material* The Commission representing the European /(tomic Energy Community participated in t;he meeting and along with 58 participating countries was able'to sign the Final Act which brought the two year long negotiations on this Convention to a
2. The basis of the Commission's participation were directives given by the Council of Ministers at its meeting of 18 September.in which were set out in detail the main points that would have "to be successfully negotiated by the Commission if the Community was to eventually participate in the Convention.. •
3. These directives concerned .
a) the participation of the Commission in the negotiations
as well as the conditions for- the accession of the Com­ munity as such ;
the negotiation of important problems which related to the substance of the convention jitself/, e.g. its scope, a possible revision ard the settlement of cjisputes ;
the internal repartition of competences between the , Community and the Member States. ,
4. The issue
subject of considerable discussion ever since the matter had been presented by the Commission on the basis of a partial mandate at the negotiating Session in February 1979. In September an informal meeting was specially convened on t>>e subject and the Commission tabled an accession clause that would allow EURATOM to accede
to the Convention alongside its
of EURATOM's accession to the Convention has been the ,
 •.memberstates. Themeeting,however,wasunable.toagreeonthe specific terms for accession.
The compromise finally established at the October meeting after
extensive bargaining^ow indicates that the Convention would be open for signature or accession by "regional organisations of an
integration or other nature" and lay "international organisations" provided they were constituted by sovereign states and had the necessary competences. Furthermore the clause also incorporates the other essential EURATOM requirement that on signing it was only necessary for such organisation to indicate.those Articles of the Convention that did not apply to it.
The Council directives also required that the Community would only accept the Scope of the Convention as set out in the draft contained in CPNM/77/Corr. 1 provided that the.provisions for cooperation and assistance in the event of unlawful taking of nuclear material as
set out in the first paragraph of Article 5(2) of the above-mentioned draft was not an obligation but depended upon being clearly at the request of the State party concerned. The Commission tabled an amendment to this effect ,.* as contained in point A of the Council 's directives and this formed the basis of a text that was accepted by all participating States.
The Council directives required that the Community could agree that after an unspecified period of time a conference would be held to review the operation of the Convention in the light .of circumstances then prevailing . Furthermore the directives underlined that such a
conference would in no way prejudge the position of those participating as to its outcome. Negotiations in Vienna confirmed the importance
the majority of other parties also attached to a conference of this kind and Article 16 of the final text provides for such a conference
five years after entry.into force of the Convention.
In addition to such - possibly poricdic - reviews, provisions in the Convention have also been envisaged for an amendment procedure allowing updating to take account of technical developments in the field of . nuclear transport. This procedure, which is set out in Article 20, foresees the possibility of a specially convened conference to consider
such amendments if the majority of parties to the Convention agree..
. The necessity of modifying the arbitration and d"! scutes procedure was also an element of the directives because the proposed procedure of
submitting disputes over arbitration to the International Court of as a last resort could not be used in cases involving the
Community since the Statutes of the ICJ rule out the possibility of the Community, as such being party to proceedings before, it. Alternative proposals were submitted to the meeting'by the Com- • missionandotherparticipants* EventuallyanewAticle17was drawn up which incorporates the essential elements of the Commis­ sion'searIier.draftproposal. Itprovidesthatwhennegotiations
over a dispute have broken down the matter can be referred either
to arbitration or to the International Court of Justice for decision. '
In the .case where the-procedure chosen is arbitration and the parties cannot agree on how it is arranged, either.may request the President of the International Court of Justice or the -Secretary General of the ' UnitedNationstoappointoneormorearbitrators. Inthecaseof conflicting requests by the parties to the dispute, the- request to
the Secretary General of the United Nations shall have priority. This solution accommodates the position of the Community and avoids recourse' to a specific procedure limited to disputes in which the Communitywouldbeinvolved. Itcanthereforebe.acceptedbythe
10. The Convention- wi11 be open for signature from 3 March 1980.
^ It wil.l.enter into force after, ratification by 21 signatories.
By virtue of Article 102 of the EURATOM Treaty and
because of the complementary character of the competences' of the Community and its Member States in matters covered by the Convention, it is necessary that the instruments" of approval and ratification be deposited by the Community and its Member States at the same time. Furthermore, it would be appropriate that the Convention be signed by the Commission on behalf of Euratom and by its- Member States simultaneously.
11. The Commission now submits the text of the Convention (Annex 1) . so that the Council may approve its conclusion by the Commission (see Annex,2) according to the procedure of Article 101 (2) of
the Euratom Treaty. In accordance with Article 18.4. (c) of the Convention, the Commission will, at the same-time, make a *' ' ■ declaration, as" set out in Annex 3 indicating which States are
members of Euratom and which Articles of the Convention do not
apply to it.
The Meeting of Governmental Representatives to Consider the Drafting of a Convention on the Physical' Protection of Nuclear Material met
in Vienna at the Headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency from 31 October to 10 November 1977i' from 10 to 20 April 1978, from5"t°16Februaryandfrom15to26October1979» Informal consultations between Governmental Representatives'took place
from 4 "to J September 1978 and from 24 to 25 September 1979*
Representatives of fifty eight States and one organization participated,
namely, representatives of:
Germanyj Federal Republic of - Greece
Guatemala Holy See
Meeting of Governmental Representatives "to consider the Drafting of a Contention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
Indonesia Ireland Israel Italy
Korea, Republic of • Libyan Arab Jamahariya
Union of* Soviet Socialist Republics United Arab Enirates
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
United States of America
European Atomic Energy Community /
The following Spates and international organizations participated , as observers:
Nuclear Energy Agency ' of .the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
The meeting elected Ambassador D.Ii. Siazon Jr. (Philippines) as
Chairman. Fortl^meetingsinApril1978pidFebruary1979 Mr. R.A. Estrada-Oyuela (Argentina) was elected Chairman.
The Meeting elected as Vice-Chairmen:
Mr. K. Willuhn of the German Democratic Republic, who 'at the meeting
in February 1979 was succeeeded by Mr. H. Rabold of the German Democratic Republic; t . .
Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands, who at the meeting of' October 1979 was succeeeded by Mr. G. Dahlhoff of the Federal Republic of Germany;
Mr. R.A. Estrada–Oyuela, Argentina, who at the meeting of October 1^79 was succeded . by Mr. L.A. Olivieri of Argentina .
 Mr. L.W. Herron (Australia) was elected Rapporteur. For the meeting in October 1979 Mr. N.R. Snith' (Australia) was elected Rapporteur.
Secretariat services were provided by the International Atomic 'Energy Agency. The Director General of the Agency was represented
by the Director of the Legal Division of the Agency, Mr. D.M. Edwards andj in succession to him, Mr. L.W. Herron.
The Meeting set up the following groups:
Working Group, on Technical Issues Chairman: Mr. R.J.S* Harry, Netherlands
Working Group on Scope of Convention Chairman : Mr. K„ Willuhn , German Democratic
Members: Representatives of Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Czechoslovakia , Egypt , Prance , Federal. Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Qatar, Tunisia ,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of
The Meeting had before it the following documents: .
(a) *■ Draft Convention-oa-Jthe Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials Facilities and Transports, as contained in documexit CPNM/l. !
C?) . IASA Document INFCIRC/ 225»Rev..l : The Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
( c ) . IAEA Document INFCIRC/ 254-i Communications Received from Certain Member States regarding Guidelines for the Export of- Nuclear Material , Equipment or Technology
The Meeting completed consideration of a Convention, the text of
which is attached as Annex I. Certain delegations expressed • »r
reservations with regard to particular provisions in the text. These are recorded in the documents and in the Daily Reports of
the Meeting. It was agreed that the text will be referred "by delegations to their authorities. ■ -
The Meeting recommended .that the text of the Convention be transmitted for information to the Twenty–third General Conference of the International Atomic ' Energy Agency.
The Convention will^ . . in accordance with its terms^be
opened for signature from 3 March 1980 at the Headquarters of the
International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York.
Vienna, 26 October 1979 Chairman of the Meeting
. PARTICIPANTS IN THE MEETING Signed by the delegations of : .
The States Partie3 to this Convention, -
* Recognising the right of all States to develop a.nd apply nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and their legitimate interests in the potential benefits to be derived from the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
Convinced of the need for facilitating international co-operation in the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
-Desiring to avert the potential dangers posed by the unlawful taking and use of nuclear material,
Convinced that offences relating to nuclear material are a matter of grave concern and that there is an urgent need to adopt appropriate • effective measures to ensure the prevention, detection and punishment of
. such offences, . ^
. Aware of the need for international co-operation to establish, in conformity with the national law of each State Party and with thi3 . Convention, effective measures for the physical protection of nuclear material, , -
. Convinced that this Convention should facilitate the safe transfer
of nuclear material,
Stressing also the importance of the physical protection .of nuclear material in domestic use, storage and transport,
. Recognizing the importance of effective physical protection of nuclear material used for military purposes,. and understanding that such material is And will continue to be accorded stringent physical protection,
Have agreed as follows:
For the purposes of this Convention: \
"nuclear material" means pltrtonium except that with isotopic concentration exceeding 80$ in plutonium-238; uranium-233; . uranium enriched, in the isotopes 235 or 233; uranium containing the mixture of isotopes as occurring in nature other than in the form of ore or ore-residue; any material containing one or more
of the foregoing;
(b) "uranium enriched in the isotope 235 or 233" means uranium containing the isotopes 235 ot 233 or both in an amount such that the abundance ratio of the stmt of these isotopes to the
isotope 238 is greater than the ratio of the isotope 235 to the isotope 238 occurring in nature; '
"international nuclear transport" means the carriage of a consignment of nuclear material by any means of transportation intended to go beyond the territory of the State where the shipment originates beginning with the departure from a facility of the shipper in that. State and ending with the arrival at a facility of the receiver within the State of
ls This Convention shall apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in international nuclear transport*
2* Withtheexceptionof-articles3and4andparagraph3ofarticle5, this Convention shall, also apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in domestic use, storage and transport#
3* Apart from the commitments expressly undertaken "by States Parties in the articles covered "by paragraph 2 with respect to nuclear material
used for peaceful purposes. while in domestic use, storage and transport, nothing in this Convention shall "be interpreted as affecting the sovereign rights of a State regarding the domestic use, storage and transport of such nuclear material*
Each. State Party ©hall.take appropriate steps within the framework of its national law and. consistent with international law to ensure as far as
practicable that, during international nuclear transport, nuclear material within its territory, or on "board a ship or aircraft under its jurisdic­ tion insofar as such, ship or aircraft is engaged in the transport to or from that State, is protected at the levels described in Annex I.
1. Each. State Party shall not export or authorize the export of nuclear
material unless the State Party haa received assurances that such material
will "be protected during the international nuclear transport at the levels described in innere I.
2. Each. State Party shall not import or authorize the import of nuclear material from a State not party to this Convention unless the State Party
has received assurances that such material will during the international
nuclear transport "be protected at the levels described in flnno-r I. Φ
A State Party shall not allow the transit of its territory "by land or
internal waterways or through its airports or seaports of nuclear material
between States that are not parties to this Convention unless the State Party ha3 received assurances as far as practicable that this nuclear material will "be protected during international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I.
4* Each State Party shall apply within the framework of its national
law the levels of physical protection described in Anna-r I to nuclear material being transported from a part of that State to another part of the same State through international waters or airspace*
5. The State Party responsible for receiving assurances that the nuclear material will be protected at the levels described in Armex I according to paragraphs 1 to 3 ' shall identify and inform in advance States which' the nuclear material is expected to transit by land or internal waterways, or whose airports 03? seaports it i3 expected to enter,
6. The responsibility for' obtaining assurances referred to in paragraph 1 may be transferred, by mutual agreement, to the State Party involved in the transport as the importing State.
7. Nothing in this article shall be interpreted as in any way affecting the territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction of a State, including that over its airspace azid territorial sea. -
1« ' States Parties fihfwll identify and m^Tre known to eaclx other directly or through the International Atomic Energy Agency their central authority and point of contact having responsibility for physical protection of
nuclear material land for co-ordinating recovery and response operations in the event of any unauthorized removal, use or alteration of nuclear
material or in the event of credible threat thereof.
2. In the case of theft, robbery or any other -unlawful, taking of nuclear" material or of credible threat thereof, States Parties shall, in accordance , with their national law, provide co-operation and assistance to the mazimxsa
feasibla extent in the recovery and protection of such material to any State that so requests* Ih particular:
a State Party shall take appropriate steps to inform as soon as
possible other States^which. appear to it to be concerned, of any theft, robbery or other unlawful taking of nuclear material or
credible threat thereof and to inform, where appropriate, inter­ national organizations;
as appropriate, the States Parties concerned shall exchange
inforaation with each other or international organizations with ~ . a view to protecting threatened nuclear material, verifying the
integrity of the shipping container,- or recovering unlawfully taken nuclear material^ and shall: -
(i) co-ordinate their efforts tl rough diplomatic and other agreed ' channels; ^
(iii) ensure the return of nuclear material stolen or missing as a consequence of the above-mentioned events.
The means of implementation oif^ this co-operation shall be determined by the - States Parties concerned.
3. States Parties co-operate and consult as appropriate, with each other directly or through international organizations, with a view to obtain­ ing guidance on the design, maintenance and improvement of systems of physical protection of nuclear material in international transport.
1. States Parties shall take appropriate measures consistent with their national law to protect the confidentiality of any information which they receive in confidence "by virtue of the provisions of this Convention from
another State Party or through participation in an activity carried out for the implementation of this Convention. If .States Parties provide information to international organizations in confidence, steps shall be taken to ensure
that the confidentiality of such information is protected.
2. States Parties shall not "be required by this Convention to provide any information which they are not permitted to communicate pursuant to national law or which would jeopardize the security of the State concerned or the . physical protection of nuclear material.
Article 7 The intentional commission ofr
shall be law.
an act without lawful authority which constitutes the receipt, possession, use, transfer, alteration, disposal or dispersal of nuclear material and which causes or i3 lilcely to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial damage to property ;
a theft or robbery of nuclear material;
an embezzlement or fraudulent obtaining of nuclear material;
an act" constituting a demand for nuclear material by threat or use of force or by any other form of intimidation;
a threat :
(i) to usa nuclear material to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial property damage, or
£ii) to commit an offence described in sub-paragraph (b) in order to compel a natural or legal person, international organiza-
" tion or State to do or to refrain from doing any act;
an attempt to commit any offence described in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c); and
an act which constitutes participation in any offence described in paragraphs (a) to (f)
a punishable offence by each State Party tinder its national
2. Each State Party shall maka the offences described in this article punishable by appropriate penalties which take into account their grave nature .
1. Each State Party shall take such measures as may "be necessaryto establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 7 in the following cases: • "
(a.) when the offence is committed in the territory of that State or on "board a. ship or aircraft registered' in that State ;
("b) when the alleged offender is a national of that State.
2. Each State Party shall likewise take such measures as may "be necessary f
to estaolish its jurisdiction over these offences in cases where the alleged offender is present in its territory and it does not extradite hia pursuant to article llto any of the States mentioned in paragraph 1.
3. This Conveniaon does not exclude any criminal jurisdiction exercised
'in accordance with national law. ' .,-i/
4. In addition to the States Parties mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2» each State Party may," consistent 'with internationalJLaw, establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article J when it is involved in international nuclear transport as the exporting or importing State. -
Upon "being satisfied that the circumstances so warrant, the State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present shall take
appropriate measures, including detention, under its national law to ensure his presence for the purpose of prosecution or extradition. Measures taken according to this article shall he notified without delay to the States required to establish jurisdiction pursuant to article 8 and. where appropriate, all other States concerned*
The State.Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present shall, if it does not extradite him, submit, without exception whatsoever and without undue delay, the case to its competent authorities for the purpose of prosecution, through proceedings in accordance with the laws of that State. -•
 ' I., , The offences in article 7 shall "be deemed to "be included as extraditable offences in any extradition treaty existing "between
. States Parties., States Parties undertake to include those offences
as extraditable offences in every future extradition treaty to "be concluded "between them. : .
2. If a State Party which makes' extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty receives a request for extradition from another State Party with -which it. has no extradition treaty, it may at its option consider this Convention as the legal "basis for extradition in respect 'of those offences. Extradition shall "be subject to the
other conditions provided by the law of the requested State. .
3. StatesPartiies which do not make extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty shall recognize those offences as extraditable
offences' between themselves subject to the conditions provided by the law of the requested State.
4. Each of the offences shall be treated, for the purpose of extra­ dition between States Partiesf as if it had been committed not only in the place in which it occurred but also in the territories of "the States Parties required to establish their jurisdiction in accordance
withparagraph1ofarticle8.' ,
, Anypersonregardingwhomproceedingsarebeingcarriedoutincon­ nection with any of the offences set forth in article 7 shall be guaranteed fair treatment at all stages of the proceedings.
 1. States Parties sfca».l one another the gr» at <*fcrfc measure of assis­ tance in connection with, criaiaal- proceedings brought - in respect cf the- offences set - forth in aj-iicle 7» including the snpply -of evidence at their, disposal necessary for the proceedings . ?he lav of the State requested , shall apply in all cases, , . -
2♦ • The pro-visions of paragraph 1 shall aot affect obligations uader any other treaty, bilateral or multilateral, which governs or will govern, in whole or in part, mtctxsal assistance in- criminal matters.
1. Each State Party shall inform the depositary of its laws and regulations which give effect to this Convention. The depositary shall communicate such information periodically to all States Parties.
2. The State Party where an alleged offender is prosecuted shall, wherever practicable , first - communicate the -final outcome of the proceedings to the States directly concerned. The State Party shall also communicate the final outcome to the depositary who shall inform all States.
3. Where an offence involves nuclear material used for peaceful purposes in domestic use, storage or transport, and "both the alleged' offender and the nuclear material remain in the territory of the State Party in which the offence was committed, nothing in this Convention shall he interpreted as requiring that State Party to provide information concerning criminal
proceedings arising out of such an offence.
 The ÂQxiexes P2r$
constitute an intégral pari; -
–.V 1# A- conference of States Parties shall be convened by the depositary five years after the entry into force of this Convention to review the .
implementation of the Convention and its adequacy as concerns the preamble the Whole of the operative part and the annexes in the light of the then prevailing situation.
2. At intervals, of not less than five years thereafter, the majority of States Parties may obtain, by submitting a proposal to this effect to
the depositary, the convening of further conferences with the same objective .
1. In the event of a dispute "between two or more States Parties
concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention,' such States Parties shall consult -with a view to the settlement
of the -dispute "by negotiation, or by any other peaceful means of settling disputes acceptable to all parties to.the dispute.
; 2. Any dispute of this character which cannot "be settled in the
manner prescribed in paragraph 1 shall, at the request of any party to such dispute, he submitted to arbitration or referred to the
International Court of Justice for decision. Where a dispute is suhnitted to arbitration, if, within six months from the date of
the request, the parties to the dispute are unable to agree on the organization of the arbitration, a party may request the President of the International Court of Justice or the Secretary-General of the United Nations to appoint one or more arbitrators. In case of conflicting requests by the . parties to the - dispute , the request to
the- Secretary-General of the United Nations shall have priority.
3. Each State Party may at the time of signature, ratification, acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto declare that it does not consider itself bound by either or both of the dispute settlement procedures provided for in paragraph 2.
The other States Parties shall not be bound by a dispute settle­ ment procedure provided for in paragraph 2, with respect to a State Party which has made a reservation to that procedure.
4* Any State Party which1 has made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 3 may at any time withdraw that reservation "by notification to the depositary.
 This Convention shall be open for signature by' all States at the Headquarters of the Interational Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, and at.
-he Headquarters of the United Nations in New York from 3 March 1930 until its entry into force.
2. This Convention is subject to ratification, acceptance or approval by
the signatory States.
3.- After its entry 1sto force, this Convention will be open for accession, by all States. *
4-. , (a) This Convention snail be open, for signature or accession by
international organisations and regional organisations of an integration or'
- other nature, provided that any such organisation is constituted by sovereign ' States and- has cosnpatence in respect of the negotiation, conclusion and .
application of international agreements in natters covered by this Convention.
(b) In masters vitnin their competence, such organisations shall, on their own behalf, exercise the rights and fulfil the responsibilities which tiiis Convention attributes to States Parties.' • ■'
(c) When becoming party to this Convention such an organisation gVtaT^ eornaumcate to the depositary a declaration indicating vhich States are members thereof and whiph articles of this Convention do not apply to it.
, (d) Such an organisation shall not held any vote additional to those of its Member States . ■ '
5* Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession shall be deposited with the depositary . • . '
1. This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day
following the data of deposit of the twenty first instrument of ratification,
acceptance oc approval with the depositary.
2. For each State ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention after the date of deposit of the twenty first instrument
of ratification , acceptance or approval , the Convention shall enter into force on the. thirtieth day after the deposit by'such State of its instrument of ratification , acceptance , approval or accession.
1. Without prejudi6e to article 16 a State Party may propose amendments
to this Convection. The proposed amendment shall be submitted to the " depositary who shall circulate it immediately to all States Parties. If a majority of Spates Parties request the depositary to convene a conference to consider the proposed-amendments, the depositary shall invite all States
Parties to attend such a conference to begin not sooner than thirty days after the invitations are issued. Any amendment adopted at the conference by
a two-thirds majority of all States' Parties shall be promptly circulated by the depositary to all States Parties. ' - ■ ■
2. The amendment shall enter into force for each State Pa#y that deposits
jits instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendment on the thirtieth day after the date on which two thirds of the States Parties
have deposited their instraments of ratification, acceptance or approval with ihe depositary. Thereafter, the amendment shall enter into force for any
other State Party on the day on which that State Party deposits its instrument of ratification,, acceptance or approval of the amendment.
1. . Any State Party may denounce this Convention by written notification to the depositary.
2, Denunciation shall take effect one hundred and eighty days following the date on which notification is received by the deposita~*y.
The depositary shall promptly notify all States of:
each signature of this Conventions
each deposit of an instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval accession ; '
any reservation or withdrawal in accordance with article 17;
any communication made "by an organization in accordance with paragraph 4(c) of article 18;
the entry into force of this Convention;
the entry into force of any amendment to this Convention; any denunciation .made under article 21.
The original of this Convention,, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall "be deposited with the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency who shall send certified copies thereof to all States.
 IH WITNESS WHEREOF, the rmdersigned, being duLy authorized, have ' signed this Convention, opened for signature at Vienna and at New York on 3 March 1980. *
Laveis of Physical Protection to- be Applied in International Transport or Nuclear Material as Categorised in Annei IX
' 1. Levels of physical protection for nuclear naterial during storage incidental to international nuclear" transport include;
^a} ForCategoryIIImaterials,storage'withinanareatowhichaccess is controller.;
^b) ForCategoryIImaterials,storagewithinanareaunderconstant surveillance"by"guardsorelectronicdevices, surrounded"byaphysical
, ""barrierwithalimitednumberofpointsofentry-underappropriate control or any area with an equivalent level of physical protection;
(c) ForCategoryImaterial,storagewithinaprotectedareaasdefined'for
, Category II above, to which, in addition, access is restricted to persons
whose trustworthiness has been determined, and which is under surveillance
by guards who are in close conminication with appropriate response forces'.
Specific measures taken in this contest should have as their object the
detection and'prevention of any assault, unauthorised access or
unauthorized removal of material.
I'« Levels of physical protection for nuclear material during international
Under special precautions including prior arrangements among sender, " receiver, and carrier, and prior agreement between natural or legal . persons subject to the jurisdiction and regulation of exporting and
importing states, specifying time, place and procedures for transferring transport responsibility; - " .
(a) For.Category II and III materials, transportation shall take place . *•
(b) ForCategoryImaterials,transportationshalltakeplaceunderspecial precautions- identified above for transportation of Category II and
m materials, and in addition, under constant surveillance by escorts and under conditions which assure close communication with
ror natural uraniua other than in the fors of ore or ore-residue, transportation protection for qfuaatitiea exceeding $00 kilograms 0 shall include advance notification of shipnent specifying mode of
transport, espected tiae of arrival and confirmation of receipt of shipment. ' '
UnirradiatedY Unirradiated^
500 g or leso tut more than 15 g
1 kg or leoo but moro than 15 g
Leoa than 10 kg but moro than 1 kg
10 kg or moro
4. Irradiated fuol
but IODO thon 20$ , *h%
- uraniumenrichedabovonatural, but looa than 10$ 235U
uranium enriched "to 20$ or more
5 kg or moro
2 kg or more
Loco than 2 kg "but moro than
LOOD than 5 KG but moro than
10 kg or more
but moro than 300 g
Dopletod or natural
uranium, thorium or' low-cnrichod fuol
(loaa than 10$ , / , fiooile content)ÙJsJ
moro than,15 g
a/. All plutoniura oxcept that with iootopio concentration exceeding 00$ in plutonium~2jB»
b/ Material not irradiated in a roaotor or material irradiated in a roaotof 'out witn a ' ' .. χ
radiation level equal to or leoo than 100 rade/hour at one metre unBhioldod,
0/ Quantitieo not failing in Category III and natural uranium rihuuld bo protected, in accordance with prudent, management practice.
d/ Although thin lovol of protection ia recommondod, it would be open to Statea} upon
evaluation of the opcoifib circu/notanoeo. to aooign.a different category of phyaical 1»1
e/ Other fuel which by virtue of its original fitjoilo material content is olaooified ao
Category I pnd II boforo irradiation may be reduced one category level while the radiation lovol from the fuol 'oxcoodo 100 rado/hour at ono metro uncihieldod*
approving the conclusion by the Commission
of the International Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomic
Energy Community and in particular the second paragraph
of Article 101 thereof-
Having regard to the Commission draft.
Whereas the Commission has, in conformity with the Council directives, negotiated the International Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material ^
Whereas, therefore, the conclusion of the said Convention'by the Commission should be approved ;■
The conclusion by the Commission of the International Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material Is hereby approved
 Declaration to be made by the Commission 'on behalf of EURATOM when signing the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
At present the following States are members of the European Atomic Energy Community :
Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, • Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
The Community declares that Articles 7 to '13 of the Convention
do not apply to it and it considers itself to be bound only by the
arbitration procedure set out in Article 17, paragraph 2.
namely, representatives of:
Germany, Federal Republic of Greece
Holy See
Korea, Republic of Libyan Arab Jamahariya Luxembourg
Meeting of Governmental Representatives to consider the Drafting of a Contention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material
The Meeting of Governmental Representative to Consider the Drafting of a Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material met
in Vienna at the Headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency from 31 October to 10 November 1977»' from 10 to 20 April 1978, from 5 "to 16 February and From 15 to 26 October 1979- Informal consultations between Governmental Representatives took place
from 4 to 7 September 1978 and from 24 to 25 September 1979- Representatives of fifty eight States and one organization participated
The meeting elected Ambassador D.L. Siazon Jr. (Philippines), as Chairman. For the meetings in April 1978 and February 1979
Mr. R.A. Estradau-Oyue1a (Argentina) was elected Chairman.
The Meeting elected as Vice-Chairmen :
Mr. K. Willuhn of tiie German Democratic Republic, who at the meeting
in February 1979 was succeeeded by Mr. H. Rabold of the German Democratic Republic ;
Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands, who at the meeting of October 1979 was succeeeded by Mr. G. Dahlhoff of the Federal Republic of Germany;
Mr. R.A. Estrada^-Oyuela^ Argentina, who at the meeting of October 1979 was succeded . by Mr. L.A. Olivieri of Argentina .
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics United Arab Bnirates
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
United States of America Venezuela ,
European Atomic Energy Community
The following States and international organizations participated as observers :
Nuclear Energy Agency of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development
 Mr. L.W. Herron (Australia) wasr elected Rapporteur. For the meeting in October 1979 Mr. N.R. 9nith (Australia) was elected Rapporteur.
Secretariat services were provided by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The Director General of the Agency was represented
by the Director of the Legal Division of the Agency, Mr. D.M. Edwards and, in succession to him. Mr. L.W. Herron.
The Meeting set up the following groups:
Working Group on Technical Issues Chairman: Mr. R.J.S. Harry, Netherlands
Working Group on Legal Issues
Working Group on Scope of Convention
Chairman : lb*. K. Willuhn , German Democratic Republic
Members: Representatives of Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Prance, Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Qatar, Tunisia ,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of America.
The Meeting had before it the following documents:
(a) ' Draft Convention on~the Physical Protection of Nuclear Materials
Facilities and Transports* as contained in document CPNM/l.
(1?) IAEA Document INFCIRC/225»Rev.l: The Physical Protection of . Nuclear Material
(c) IAEA Document INFCIRC/254: Communications Received from Certain Member States regarding Guidelines for the Export of Nuclear Material, Equipment or Technology
'The Meeting completed consideration of a Convention, the text of whichisattachedasAnnexI. Certain.delegationsexpressed reservations with regard to . particular provisions in the text . These are recorded in the documents and in the Daily Reports of theMeeting. Itwasagreedthatthetextwill"bereferredby delegations to their authorities.
The Meeting recommended that the text of the Convention be transmitted for information to the Twenty–third General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
The Convention willj . in accordance with its terms^be
opened for signature from 3 March 1980 at the Headquarters of the
International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York.
Vienna, 26 October 1979 Chairman of the Meeting
Signed by the delegations of: '
The States Parties to this Convention#
Recognizing the right of all States to develop and apply rv"d energy for peaceful purposes and their legitimate interests in the potential benefits to be derived from the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
Convinced of the need for facilitating international co-operation in the peaceful application of nuclear energy,
Desiring to avert the potential dangers posed by the unlawful taking and use of nuclear material,
Convinced that offences relating to nuclear material are a matter of grave concern and that there is an' urgent need to adopt appropriate and effective measures to ensure the preventiony detection and punishment of such offences,
. Aware of the need for international co-operation to establish, in conformity with the national law of each State Party and with this Convention, effective measures for the physical protection of nuclear material .
Convinced that this Convention should facilitate the safe transfer of nuclear material.
Stressing also the importance of the physical protection .of nuclear material in domestic use, storage and transport,
. Recognizing the importance of effective physical protection of nuclear material used for military purposes^, and understanding that such material is ami will continue to be accorded stringent physical protection,
Have agreed as follows:
 Article 1 For the purposes of this Convention:
(a) "nuclearmaterial"meansplutoniumexceptthatwithisotopic coneartrationexceeding80#inplutonium-238; uranium-233; uraniumenrichedintheisotopes235or233; uraniumcontaining the mixture of isotopes as occurring in nature other than in the formoforeorore-residue; anymaterialcontainingoneormore
of the foregoing;
(b) "uraniumenrichedintheisotope235or233"meansuranium containing the isotopes 235 or 233 or both in an amount such ' that the abundance ratio of the sum of these isotopes to the
isotope238isgreaterthantheratiooftheisotope 235 the isotope 23d occurring in nature;
(c) "internationalnucleartransport"meansthecarriageofa consignment of nuclear material by any means of transportation intended to go beyond the territory of the State where the shipment originates beginning with the departure from a facility of the shipper in that State and ending with the arrival at a facility of the receiver within the State of ultimate destination*
1. This Convention shall apply to nuclear material used, for peaceful purposes while in international nuclear transport*
2. With the exception of articles 3 and 4 and paragraph 3 of article 5, this Convention shall also apply to nuclear material used for peaceful purposes while in domestic use, storage and transport*
3* Apart from the commitments expressly undertaken by States Parties
in the articles covered hy paragraph 2 with respect to nuclear material *
used for peaceful purposes while in domestic uset storage and transport) nothing in this Convention shall he interpreted as affecting the sovereign rights of a State regarding the domestic use, storage and transport of such nuclear material-
Each State Party shall take appropriate steps within the framework of its national law and consistent with international law to ensure as far as
practicable that, during international nuclear transport, nuclear material within its territory, or on hoard a ship or aircraft under its jurisdic­ tion insofar as such ship or aircraft is engaged in the transport to or from that State, id protected at the levels described in Annex I.
1. Each. State Party shall not export or authorize the export of nuclear
material unless the State Party has received assurances that such material
will be protected during the international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I*
2. Each State Party shall not import or authorize the import of nuclear material from a State not party to this Convention unless the State Party
has received assurances that such material will during the international nuclear transport be protected at the levels described in I.
3* A State Party shall not allow the transit of its territory by land or internal waterways or through its airports or seaports of nuclear material between States that are not parties to this Convention unless the State Party
has received assurances as far as practicable that this nuclear material will be protected during international nuclear transport at the levels described in Annex I*
4* Each State Party shall apply within the framework of its national
law the levels of physical protection described in Annex I to nuclear material being transported from a part of that State to another part of the same State through international waters or airspace*
5* The State Party responsible for receiving assurances that the nuclear material will be protected at the levels described in Armo-r j according to paragraphs 1 to 3 shall identify and inform in advance States which the nuclear material is expected to transit by land or internal waterways, or whose airports or seaports it is expected to enter*
6* The responsibility for obtaining assurances referred to in paragraph 1 may be transferred, by mutual agreement, to the State Party involved in the transport as the importing State*
7* Hothing in this article shall be interpreted as in any way affecting the territorial sovereignty and jurisdiction of a State, including that over its airspace and territorial sea* _
1. States Parties shall-identify and make known to each other directly or■through the International Atomic Energy Agency their central authority and point of contact having responsibility for physical protection of nuclear material and for co-ordinating recovery and response operations
In the event of any unauthorized removal, use or alteration of nuclear material or in the event of credible threat thereof.
2. In the case of theft, robbery or any other unlawful talcing of nuclear material or of credible threat thereof, States Parties shall, in accordance with their national law, provide co-operation and assistance to the maximum feasible extent in the recovery and protection of such material to any State that so requests*. In particular:
a State Party shall take appropriate steps to inform as soon as.
possible other States^which appear to it to be concerned, of any theft, robbery or other unlawful taking of nuclear material or
credible threat thereof and to inform, where appropriate, inter­ national organizations;
as appropriate, the States Parties concerned shall exchange
information with each other or international organizations with
a view to protecting threatened nuclear material, verifying the
integrity of the shipping container, or recovering unlawfully
*'/' taken nuclear material# and shall:
co-ordinate their efforts through diplomatic and other agreed
ensure the return of nuclear material stolen or missing as a consequence of the above-mentioned events* .
The means of implementation of this co-operation shall be determined by the States Parties concerned.
3. States Parties shall co-operate and consult as appropriate, with each other directly or through international organizations, with a view to obtain­ ing guidance on the design, maintenance and improvement of systems of physical protection of nuclear material in international transports
1. States Parties shall take appropriate measures consistent with their national law to protect the confidentiality of any information which they receive in confidence by virtue of the provisions of this Convention from another State Party or through participation in an activity carried out for „ the implementation of this Convention. . If States Parties provide infozonation
to international organizations in confidence* steps shall be taken to' ensure that the confidentiality of such information is protected.
. 2. States Parties shall not be required by this Convention to provide any information which they are not permitted to communicate pursuant to national law or which would jeopardize the security of the State concerned or the physical protection of nuclear material. .
Article 7 The intentional commission of:
an act without lawful authority which constitutes the receipt, possession, use, transfer, alteration, disposal or dispersal of nuclear material and which causes or is likely to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial damage to property ;
a theft or robbery of nuclear material;
an embezzlement or fraudulent obtaining of nuclear material;
an act constituting a demand for nuclear material by threat or use of force or by any other form of intimidation;
a threat:
(i) to use nuclear material to cause death or serious injury to any person or substantial property damage, or
(ii) to commit an offence described in sub-paragraph (b) in order to compel a natural or legal person, international organiza­ tion or State to do or to refrain from doing any act;
an attempt to commit any offence described in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c); and
an act which constitutes participation in any offence described in paragraphs (a) to (f)
shall be made a punishable offence by each State Party under its national law,
2* Each State Party shall make the offences described in this article punishable by appropriate penalties which take into account their grave nature.
ls Each State Party shall take each measures as may lie necessary to establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 7 in the following cases: –
(a) when the offence is committed in the territory of that State or on board a ship or aircraft registered in that State;
(b) when the alleged offender is a national of that State*
2« Each State Party shall likewise take such measures as may be necessary to establish its jurisdiction over these offences in cases where the alleged offender is present in its territory and it does not extradite him pursuant to article 11to any of the States mentioned in paragraph 1.
3* This Convention does not exclude any criminal jurisdiction exercised
'in accordance with national law.
4* In addition to the States Parties mentioned in paragraphs 1 and 2»
each State Party may, consistent with irrbernat^ establish its jurisdiction over the offences set forth in article 7 when it is
involved in international nuclear transport as the exporting or importing State*
Upon being satisfied that the circumstances so warranty the State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present shall take appropriate measure^, including detention, under its national law to ensure his presence for the purpose of prosecution or extradition* Measures taken according to this article shall he notified without
delay to the States required to establish jurisdiction pursuant to article 8 and. where appropriatet all other States concerned*
The State Party in whose territory the alleged offender is present shall , if it does not extradite him, submit , without exception uhatsoever and without undue delay, the case to its competent authorities for the
purpose of prosecution, through proceedings in accordance with the laws of that State.
1. The offences in article 7 shall "be deemed to be included as
extraditable offences in any extradition treaty existing "between States Parties* States Parties undertake to include those offences
as extraditable offences iii every future extradition treaty to "be concluded between them.
2. If a State Party which makes extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty receives a request for extradition from another State Party with which it has no extradition treaty, it may at its option consider this Convention as the legal basis for extradition
in respect 'of those offences. Extradition shall be subject to the other conditions provided by the law of the requested State.
3. StatesParties which do not make extradition conditional on the existence of a treaty shall recognize those offences as extraditable offences between themselves subject to the conditions provided by the law of the requested State.
4. Each of the offences shall be ti^ated, for the purpose of extra­ dition between States Parties, as if it had been committed not- only in the place in which it occurred but also in the territories of ^he States Parties required to establish their jurisdiction in accordance with paragraph 1 of article 8.
Any person regarding whom proceedings are being carried out in con­ nection with any of the offences set forth in article 7 shall be guaranteed fair treatment at all stages of the proceedings.
1. States Parties shall afford one another the greatest measure of assis< tance in connection with criminal proceedings brought in respect of the offences sert forth in article 7» including the supply of evidence at their disposal necessary for the proceedings* The law of the State requested shall apply in all cases.
2, The provisions of paragraph 1 shall sot affect obligations under any other treatyt bilateral or multilateral, which governs or will govern, in whole or in part, mctual assistance in criminal natters.
1. Each State Party shall inform the depositary of its lawB and regulations which give effect to this Convention. The depositary shall communicate such information periodically to all States Parties,
2. The State Party where an alleged offender is prosecuted shall, wherever practicable, first communicate the final outcome of the proceedings to the States directly concerned. The State Party shall also communicate the final outcome to the depositary who shall inform all States.
3* Where an offence involves nuclear material used for peaceful purposes in domestic use, storage or transport, and both the alleged offender and the nuclear material remain in the territory of the State Party in which the offence was committed, nothing in this Convention shall be interpreted as requiring that State Party to provide information concerning criminal proceedings arising out of such an offence.
 The Annexes
1* A conference of States Parties shall be convened by the depositary- five years after the entry into force of this Convention to review the implementation of the Convention and its adequacy as concerns the preamble, the whole of the operative part and the annexes in the light of thfe then
2m " At intervals of not less than five years thereafter, the majority of States Parties may obtain, by submitting a proposal to this effect to
the depositaryt the convening of further conferences with the same objective .
1. In the event of a dispute "between two or more States Parties
concerning the interpretation or application of this Convention, such States Parties shall consult with a view to the settlement
of the dispute "by negotiation, or "by any other peaceful means of settling disputes acceptable to all parties to the dispute.
2. Any dispute of this character which cannot "be settled in the
maimer prescribed in paragraph 1 shall, at the request of any party to such dispute, he submitted to arbitration or referred to the International Court of Justice for decision. Where a dispute is submitted to arbitration, if, within six months from the date of the request, the parties to the dispute are unable to agree on the organization of the arbitration, a party may request the President of the International Court of Justice or the Secretary-General of
the United Nations to appoint one or more arbitrators. In case of conflicting requests by the parties to the dispute, the request to the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall have priority.
3* Each State Party may at. the time of signature, ratification, acceptance or approval of this Convention or accession thereto declare that it does not consider itself bound by either or both of the dispute settlement procedures provided for in paragraph 2.
The other States Parties shall not be bound by a dispute settle­ ment procedure provided for in paragraph 2» with respect to a State Party which has made a reservation to that procedure.
4. Any State Party which has made a reservation in accordance with paragraph 3 may at any time withdraw that reservation b7 notification to the depositary.
1» This Conventionshall,"beopenforsignature"byallStatesat the Headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna end at the Headquarters of the United Nations in New York from 3 March 1980 until its entry into force.
2. This Convention is subject to ratification., acceptance or approval by the signatory States.
3* After its entry into force, this Convention will be open for accession "by all States. • '
tm, (a) ThisConventionshallbeopen,forsignatureoraccessionby #*
international organisations and regional organisations of an integration or other nature, provided that any such organisation is constituted by sovereign States and has competence in respect of the negotiation, conclusion and
application of international agreements in matters covered by this Convention. r•
·* 0 (b) In matters within their competence, such organisations shall, on
their own behalf, exercise the rights and fulfil the responsibilities which this Convention attributes to States Parties.
(c) WhenbecomingpartytothisConventionsuchanorganisationshall commandcate to the depositary a declaration indicating which States are members thereof and which articles of this Convention do not apply to it.
(d) Suchanorganisationshallnotholdanyvoteadditionaltothoseof its Member States.
5. Instruments of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession shall be ; deposited with the depositary.
1« This Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day
following the- date of deposit of the twenty first instilment of ratification} ' acceptance oc approval with the depositary.
2a For each State ratifying, accepting, approving or acceding to the Convention after the date of deposit of the twenty first instrument
of ratification, acceptance or approval, the Convention shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after the deposit by such State of its instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession.
1. Without prejudice to article 16 * State Party may propose amendments tothisConvention. Theproposedamendmentshallbesubmittedtothe depositarywhoshallcirculateitimmediatelytoallStatesParties. Ifa majority of States Parties request the depositary to convene a conference to
consider the proposed amendments) the depositary shall invite all States Parties to attend such a conference to begin not sooner than thirty days aftertheInvitationsareissued. Anyamendmentadoptedattheconferenceby a two-thirds majority of all States Parties shall be promptly circulated by the depositary to all States Parties.
2. The amendment shall enter into force for each State Party that deposits
its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendment on 'the thirtieth day after the date on which two thirds of the States Parties
have deposited their instruments of ratification, acceptance or approval with thedepositary. Thereafter,theamendmentshallenterintoforceforany other State Party on the day on which that State Party deposits its instrument of ratification, acceptance or approval of the amendment.
1* Any State Part/ aay denounce this Convention by written notification to the depositary#
2, Denunciation shall take effect one hundred and eighty days following the date on which notification is received by the depositary.
The depositary shall promptly notify all States of:
each signature of this Convention; ,
each deposit of sin instrument of ratification, acceptance, approval or accession ;
' any reservation or withdrawal in accordance with article 17;
*>, any communication made "by an organization in accordance with
paragraph 4(c) of article 18;
the entry into force of this Convention;
(f) the entry into force of any amendment to this Convention; and (g) . any denunciation made under article 21* 1
The original of this Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English,- French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall he deposited with the Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency who shall send certified copies thereof to all States*
 Bf WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, have signed this Convention, opened for signature at Vienna and at New Toxic on 3 March 1980,
Levels of Physical Protection to- "be Applied ia International Transport of jjuclaar Material as Categorized in Annex II
1. Levelsofphysicalprotectionfornuclearmaterialduringstorageincidental to international nuclear transport include:
la) ForCategoryIIImaterials, storagewithinanareatowhichaccess is controllea;
l"b) ForCategoryIImaterials,storagewithinanareaunderconstant surveillance "by guards or electronic devices, surrounded "by a physical
"barrier with a limited number of points of entry under appropriate " control or aay area with an equivalent level of physical protection}
(c) ForCategoryIcaterial,storagewithinaprotectedareaasdefinedfor Category II above, to which, in addition, access is restricted to persons vhoee trustworthiness has been determined, and which is under surveillance
by guards who are ia close corasnmication with appropriate response forces. Specific measures taken in this context should have as their object the detection and'prevention of any* assault, unauthorized access or yyauthorized removal of material#
(a) For.CategoryIIandIIImaterials,transportationshalltakeplace : ■ under special precautions including prior arrangements among sender,
: •"T;' 'receiver,andcarrier,and"prioragreementbetweennaturalorlegal persons subject to the jurisdiction and regulation of exporting and
importingstates, specifyingtime, placeandproceduresfortransferring transport responsibility; _ ^
0>) ForCategoryIAerials, transportationshalltakeplaceunderspecial precautions- identified above for transportation of Category II and III materials, and in addition, under constant surveillance by
escorts' and under conditions which assure close communication with appropriate response forces.
(c) rornaturaluraniuaotherthanintheforaoforeorore–residue,
transportation protection for quantities exceeding $00 kilograms U shall include advance notification of shipcent specifying node of transport, expectedtimeofarrivalandconfirmationofreceipt of shipment.
- uranium enriohed to 20$ or more
- uranium enriched to 10$ but loon than 20$
500 g or less but more than 15 g
1 kg or leoo but more than 15 g
Leoo than 10 kg but moro than 1 kg
10 kg or moro
500 g or looo but moro than .15 g
2 kg or more
5 kg or moro
Loos thon 2 kg but moro than
Less than 5 kg but moro than ■
10 kg or more
LODO than 2 kg but moro than
Dopleted or natural
uranium, thorium or low-cnrichod fuel
(leaothan10$ ,// fiooile content)-'-'
Irradiated fuel
 - uranium enriched abovo natural, but looa than 10$ 235U
2 kg or moro
a/ All plutoniun oxcept that with iootopio concentration excooding dOJt in plutonium-2j8.
b/ Material not irradiated in a roaotor or material irradiatod in a roaotor but witn a radiation level equal to or leoo than 100 rads/hour at one motre unahieldod,
0/ Quantities not failing in Category III and natural uranium ohuuld be protected in accordance with prudent management practice. .
d/ Although thio lovol of protection la recommondod. it would be open to States,-upon
evaluation of the opcoifio circumotanoeo, to aosign a different category or physical . protootion. . ,
e/ Other fuel which by virtue of its original fiooilo material content io olaooifled as Catogory I pnd II boforo irradiation may be reduced one category lovel while the radiation lovel from the fuel toxoooda 100 rads/hour at ono metro unohieldod*
