In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(Communication from the Commission to the Council)
Through an exchange of letters op 16 January 1978/ Ahe Commission
concluded an agreement amending the 1959 Euratom/Canada Agre^ent (OJ L 65 of 8 March 1978 ).
1. Paragraph (e) of the aforementioned amendment stipywtes that "Material referred to in paragraph (c)" (i.e., those subjecf^o the terms of the
Canada/Euratom Agreement of 1959) "shall be enriched beyond 20 X or
reprocessed and plutonium or uranium enriched beyond 20 X shall be sto­
red only according to conditions agreed upon in writing between the
processing and subsequent storage of n\£$ear material within the Commu­ nity and Canada)".
, It is laid down in Point 5 of Anq^pt that :
" 5. As soon as possible after 31 December 1979 or the termination of the
INFCE study, whichever is earlier, *the parties will commence nego­ tiations with a view to replacing the arrangement by other arrange­
ments which will take Apto account inter alia any results of the INFCE studies in relation Jjsr'the operations in question. If no such arran­ gements have been Agreed upon by the end of 1980, the parties may
jointly agree tt^Ktend the present interim arrangement",
2. In an information note (doc. SEC(79) 2053 of 14 December 1979), the Commission informed the Cduricil that, in* its opinion*, it would be too early to ask it for directives for the negotiation of the revision or
extensioj^of the interim arrangement..before the results of the INFCE had been cflffilrtunicated to the participants at the final conference and the
Coun^r had been able to draw political conclusions from them. That noJ&also informed the Council that the Canadian authorities too did
newish the negotiations provided for by the interim arrangement to be commenced before the results of the INFCE were known and they had been able to draw conclusions from them.
3. Since the INFCE international study has been completed, the Canadian authorities have requested that the negotiations provided for by the interim arrangement be opened (see Canadian letter in Annex I). The Community is obliged to accede to this -request pursuant to Point 5 of Annex C to the amendment of 16 January 1978 referred to above.
SUBJECT : Renegotiation of Annex C to the Amendment of 16 January of the 1959 Euratom/Canada Agreement for Cooperation
 Furthermore, the opening of these negotiations is necessary precisaly in the interest of users in the Community who have concluded, or are about to conclude, contracts for supplies to begin next year, and in the interest of producers in the Community who have made investments
These persons must become acquainted as soon as possible with the sa­ feguards conditions that will apply to tJie supplies from 1981 . <5^
4. With regard to the substance, the Commission would like first of aCv to draw attention to the interpretation given by the Council, in res­ pect of that part of the agreement concerning the period following the interim period, in one of the letters constituting the exchange of
letters of 16 January 1978-
" In approving fche exchange of letters between Canada ^8 Euratom, the Council recognizes that the conditions under which
- material covered by the Canada/Euratom Agreemenf^fhall be enriched beyond 20 % or reprocessed,
amending the Agreement of 1959 ,^
- and those under which uranium enriched beyond 20 X and plutonium' shall be stored, ^
have been covered by an Agreement for ^j^hterim period.
For materials supplied'after the enflB^f the interim period, an agreement on the regime governing these senswnve operations remains to be con­ cluded. The Council therefore, refbgnizes that for these materials, the parties have not accepted any obligation, either as to the supply of the materials or as to the inclusion of aoy conditions in the regime which has yet to be negotiated and which would govern the sensitive operations,
nor a fortiori as to thj^&etiire of any such conditions".
With this in mind, t>i^^ommission is of the opinion that it must be under­
stood that any nea^pated solution will have to result in conditions that are predictable and stable, so as to provide a secure framework for the
long-term supply and use of the Canadian materials. #•••
To this end, the Commission is suggesting that a solution be sought which wotffcd be based on that currently being discussed in the negotia­ tions i»fn Australia, namely general 'and long-term consent in respect of artj^operation for enrichment beyond 20 X for reprocessing or storage
ca^j^ed out with natural uranium of Canadian origin.
5. Accordingly, the Commission is forwarding to the Council, as Annex II to this communication, a draft Decision issuing directives to the Com­ mission for the negotiation of a new arrangement intended to replace the interim arrangement contained in Annex C to the Amendment of the Euratom/Canada Agreement for Cooperation of 1959, concluded on
16 January 1978. Annexes
MISSION OF CANADA rue de Loxum, 6 to the European Communities 1000 BRUSSELS
Commission of the European Communities 200, rue de la Loi
As you are aware, Annex C to the January 16, 197aSexchange of Letters between Canada and Euratom which amended the Canada/Euratom
Nuclear Cooperation Agreement, provided for interim ^Fangements concer­ ning enrichment beyond 20 % U 235, reprocessing and storage of plutonium and uranium enriched beyond 20 X. Under paragraph 4 of Annex C, consul­ tations have been held which, in Canada's view, have been useful and the
results of those consultations will hopefully contribute to efforts by
both parties to reach an agreement on a l<y®rterm Arrangement on this matter.
Paragraph 5 of Annex C to tljewanuary 16 Exchange of Letters between Canada and Euratom states t1t§t the parties will commence nego­
tiations with a view to replacing interim arrangements concerning enrich­
ment beyond 20 % U 235 reprocessing and subsequent storage of nucelar
material by other arrangements as soon as possible after December 31, 1979
or termination of INFCE, whichever is earlier. Both parties evidently foresaw that these negotJ&rions would commence during 1980. It is the
wish of the Government^jyf Canada to act in accordance with paragraph 5
of Annex C of the J&mfery, 1978 Exchange of letters. Accordingly, we here­
by request that thexnecessary steps be taken by Euratom so that negotia­ tions can commence as soon as possible.
Council Decision issuing directives to the
Commission for the negotiation of the conditions
.... referred to in paragraph (e) of the Amendment of
the Euratom/Canada Agreement of 1959 concluded by the exchange of letters
of 16 January 1978
The Council of the European Communities,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Atomi^ Energy Community, and in particular paragraph 3 of Article 101 thereof,
Having regard to the draft from the Commission,
Whereas paragraph (e) of the Amendment of the mmtorn/Canada Agreement for Cooperation of 1959, conclgded by the exchanw&f letters of 16 January 1978,
stipulates that the contracting parties shj^ agre« in writing on the condi­ tions in accordance with which the materi^bS subject to the terms of the Canada/Euratom Agreement of 1959 shall be enriched beyond 20 X or repro­ cessed and the plutonium or uranium enriched beyond 20 X shall be stored ;
Whereas the interim arrangement this regard contained in Annex C to the Amendment expires on 31 Decemb^*fa80;
Whereas it is laid down in ^^rit 5 of Annex C to the Amendment of the Canada/ Euratom Agreement of 1959j§fconcluded by the exchange of letters of 16 January .
1978, that "as soon as possible after the termination of the INFCE study, the . parties will commence negotiations with a view to replacing this arrangement
by other arrangements" ;
Whereas the INMIP study has been terminated and the Canadian authorities have
requested thqO$j$ening of these negotiations; HAS DECIDEV'AS FOLLOWS :
1. The Commission shall negotiate with the Canadian Government with regard to the conditions in accordance with which the materials subject to the
*N,Canada/Euratom Agreement of 1959 shall be enriched beyond 20 X or repro­ cessed and the plutonium or uranium enriched beyond 20 X shall be stored,
„ taking account, in particular, of the results of the INFCE study.
2. These conditions must provide each party'with the irrevocable assurance that the materials can be used in a predictable and stable manner, sp that a secure framework is created for the long-term- supply and use of these, materials. To this end, the Commission may be guided by the terms current­ ly being discussed in thS'/negotiations with Australia.
SUBJECT : Renegotiation of Annex C to the Amendmentof 16 January 1978 of the 1959 Euratom / Canada Agreement for Cooperation
A communication from the<^nmission to the Council and draft
directives concerning the renegotiation referred to above are appended to this note.
The Commi -.si^jj^s requested to approve these texts and to authorize their beii^^Laced before the Council.
SUBJECT : Renegotiation of Annex C to the Amendment of 16 January 1978 of the 1959 Eura torn / Canada Agreement for Cooperation
Through an exchange of Letters on 16 January^&78, the Commission concluded an agreement amending the 1959 Euratom / Cana»i> Agreement ( OJ L 65 of 8 March 1978 ).
1. Paragraph (e) of the aforementioned amendment stipulates that "Material referred to in paragraph (c )" ( i.e. , those subject to the terms of the Canada/Euratom Agreement of 1959) "shall be enriched beyond 20 % or reprocessed and plutonium or uranium qoriched beyond 20 % shall be sto­ red only according to conditions ag^ra upon in writing between the parties (see Annex C - Interim ArwfcMement concerning enrichment, re­
processing and subsequent storaqgjbf nuclear material within the Commu­ nity and Canada)".
It is laid down in Point 5 of Annex C that :
" 5. As soon as possible after 31 December 1979 or the termination of the
INFCE study, whichever is earlier, the parties will commence nego­ tiations with a vi&» to replacing the arrangement by other arrange­
ments which wiU&Jbake into account inter alia any results of the INFCE studies in re^j^ion to the operations in question. If no such arran­
gements hav^§®een agreed upon by the end of 1980, the parties may jointly agree to extend the present interim arrangement".
2. In an information note (doc. SEC(79) 2053 of 14 December 1979), the
Commission informed the Council that, in its opinion, it would be too ear^Cfto ask it for directives for the negotiation of the revision or
ejjfcSfision of the interim arrangement before the results of the INFCE had ^jefen communicated to the participants at the final conference and the
'Vaouncil had been able to draw political conclusions from them. That note also informed the Council that the Canadian authorities too did
not wish the negotiations provided for by the interim arrangement to be commenced before the results of the INFCE were known and they had been able to draw conclusions from them.
3. Since the INFCE international study has been completed, the Canadian authorities have requested that the negotiations provided for by the interim arrangement be opened (see Canadian letter in Annex I). The Community is obliged to accede to this request pursuant to Point 5 of Annex C to the amendment of 16 January 1978 referred to above.
Furthermore, the opening of these negotiations is necessary precisaly in the interest of users in the Community who have concluded, or are about to conclude, contracts for supplies to begin next year, and in the interest of producers in the Community who have made investments in Canadian uranium mines .
These persons must become acquainted as soon as possible with the sa^» feguards conditions that will apply to the supplies from 1981 .
4. With regard to the substance, the Commission would like first ot^ll to draw attention to the interpretation given by the Council, in res­
pect of that part of the agreement concerning the period following the interim period, in one of the letters constituting the exchange of letters of 16 January 1978 amending the Agreement of 1$3£ :
" In approving fche exchange of letters between Cana<fipand Euratom, the
Council recognizes that the conditions under whi^5£r
- material covered by the Canada/Euratom Agreerit&ft shall be enriched
beyond 20 % or reprocessed,
- and those under which uranium enriched beyond 20 % and plutonium
shall be stored, ^
have been covered by an Agreement f<^§hi interim period.
For materials supplied after the^^cl of the interim period, an agreement on the regime governing these swfsitive operations remains to be con­ cluded. The Council therefore/^recognizes that for these materials, the
parties have not accepted any obligation, either as to the supply of the materials or as to the inclusion of any conditions in the regime which has yet to be negotiated and which would govern the sensitive operations,
nor a fortiori as to^te nature of any such conditions".
are predictabl^and stable, so as to provide a secure framework for the long-term supply and use of the Canadian materials.
To this end, the Commission is suggesting that a solution be sought whiclx&buld be based on that currently being discussed in the negotia­
tion with Australia, namely general and long-term consent in respect
CH^reny operation for enrichment beyond 20 % for reprocessing or storage ^j^rried out with natural uranium of Canadian origin.
5. Accordingly, the Commission is forwarding to the Council, as Annex II to this communication, a draft Decision issuing directives to the Com­ mission for the negotiation of a new arrangement intended to replace the interim arrangement contained in Annex C to the Amendment of the Euratom/Canada Agreement for Cooperation of 1959, concluded on
16 January 1978. Annexes
With this in minc^^fhe Commission is of the opinion that it must be under­ stood that anyc<$ptjotiated solution will have to result in conditions that
 MISSION OF CANADA rue de Loxum , 6 the European Communities 1000 BRUSSELS
Commission of the European Communities
As you are aware, Annex C to the January 16, JSypo Exchange of
both parties to reach an agreement on a^Ktfig-term Arrangement on this matter. '
Paragraph 5 of Annex C to^Se January 16 Exchange of Letters between Canada and Euratom state$£?hat the parties will commence nego­ tiations with a view to replacing interim arrangements concerning enrich­ ment beyond 20 % U 235 reprocessing and subsequent storage of nucelar material by other arrangements as soon as possible after December 31, 1979
or termination of INFCE^ whichever is earlier . Both parties evidently foresaw that these ne<a»nations would commence during 1980. It is the ,
wish of the Governm^wrof Canada to act in accordance with paragraph 5
of Annex C of the^ahuary, 1978 Exchange of letters. Accordingly, we here­ by request that necessary steps be taken by Euratom so that negotia­
59 Canada / Euratom Letters between Canada and Euratom which amended th^jW59 Canada/Euratom
Nuclear Cooperation Agreement, provided for inter^^arrangements concer­ ning enrichment beyond 20 % U 235, reprocessing ana storage of plutonium and uranium enriched beyond 20 %. Under paragraph 4 of Annex C, consul­ tations have been held which , in Canada 's view , have been useful and the results of those consultations will hopefully contribute to efforts by
tions can commence as soon as possible.
Council Decision issuing directives to the '■
Commission for the negotiation of the conditions referred to in paragraph (e) of the Amendment of the Euratom/Canada Agreement of 1959 concluded by
the exchange of letters
of 16 January 1978 . Z#
The Council of the European Communities ,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing and in particular paragraph 3 of Article
the European Atomic Energy Community 101 thereof/
Having regard to the draft from the Commission,
Whereas paragraph (e) of the Amendment^Sr the Euratom/Canada Agreement for Cooperation of 1959, concluded by th^wxchange of letters of 16 January 1978, stipulates that the contracting patf&fes shall agree in writing on the condi­
tions in accordance with which thS^materials subject to the terms of the Canada/Euratom Agreement of 1959 shall be enriched beyond 20 % or repro­ cessed and the plutonium or uranium enriched beyond 20 % shall be stored ; ,
Whereas the interim arrangement in this regard contained in Annex C to the , Amendment expires on 3"^^cember 1980;
Whereas it is laid^oSin in Point 5 of Annex C to the Amendment of the Canada/ Euratom Agreement ^ 1959, concluded by the exchange of letters of 16 January
1978, that "as soon as possible after the termination of the INFCE study, the parties will commence negotiations with, a view to replacing this arrangement by other arrangements" ;
Wherea$*&e INFCE study has been terminated and the Canadian authorities have reque«3jn?d the opening of these negotiations;
1 . The Commission shall negotiate with the Canadian Government with regard to the conditions in accordance with which the materials subject to the Canada/Euratom Agreement of 1959 shall be enriched beyond 20 % or repro­ cessed and the plutonium or uranium enriched beyond 20 % shall be stored, taking account, in particular, of the results of the INFCE study.
2. These conditions must provide each party with the irrevocable assurance that the materials can be used in a predictable and stable manner, so that a secure framework is created for the long-term supply and use of these materials. To this end, the Commission may be guided by the terms current­ ly being discussed in the negotiations with Australia.
