In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
1 , During the GA.TT multilateral negotiations the European Economic Coranunity undertook to open an annual Community tariff quota of 50,000 tonnes of frozen beef and vtal , expressed as boned or boneless meat, falling within subheading 02,01 A II b) of the Common Customs Tariffat2Q/Jduty. Compensatoryamountsintroducedinconnection with fluctuations in exchange rates are to be levied on J6 500 tonnes of this quota,
In this connection, it should be mentioned that, as a result of the possibility to apply the system of monetary compensatory amounts to a vo-' lume of 1 6 500 tonnes , the Commission has been led in its proposal to split the total quota volume of 50 000 tonnes into two parts, one of 33 500 tonnes and the other of 16 500 tonnes, to be allocated separately among all tn*
Member States , including Greece, which, under Article 64 of the Act of Ac­ ^"ssion, is required to apply the Commun Customs Tariff duty in respect of this
r.ieat from 1 January 1981.
3. It should be noted, with regard to this allocation, that in recent years almost all imports of frozen beef and veal into the Community of Nine have been effected under special arrangements (e.g. GATT quota, linket-sales system, ACP pre­ ferential arrangements and balance of meat processing). It is therefore pos­
sible that these figures are not representative of the trend of imports and re­
quirements in each of the Member States. Furthermore, the economic prospects
for the quota year in question cannot be assessed sufficiently accurately. In addition, the arrangements for the importation of frozen beef applied by
Greece in recent years differed appreciably from those in force in the Community
Consequently, to meet the Community's obligations, a regulation
should be abopted before 1 January 1980 on the opening, allocation and administration of the Community tariff quota in question.
 of Nine, so that the figures available for this country cannot be compared with those of each of the Member States of the Community of Nine.
For these reasons, the Commission proposes that the breakdown used in 1980 should be retained - except for Ireland, which has been allocated 0.01 % -
in order to maintain the Community nature of the quota, and that Greece should
be given a quota share of 3 %, corresponding to its presumed requirements
4. In view of Che relatively high level of the Community tariff, quota
op«=n<?d initially in relation to irr.port requireir.enca, th<TM Conanis^ior* to
believes that it Would run contrary/ the Corntnuai^y nature r>£ quota
to allocate the tariff Volumes in definitive shares to Che Meruber States*
For this reason, the proposal annexed hereto provides for the creation of Community reserves which, even if they are limited to
10 7, of each of the quota volumes,will arsisc in ensuring f»quol access for all importers and* in avoiding a situation
where customs preference is no longer applied in. one or more Mercber States while it is still applied in others* '
on the opening, allocation and administration of a Community tariff quota for frozen beef and veal falling within subheading 02.01 A II b) of the
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 113 and 43 thereof,-
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,
Whereas in the course of the GATT multilateral negotiations the European
Economic Community undertook to open an annual Community tariff quota at 20 %
duty in respect of 50 000 tonnes of frozen beef and veal, falling within subheading
02.01 A II b) and expressed as boned or boneless meat, of which 16 500 tonnes may
be subjected to the application of compensatory amo.unts introduced because of the
fluctuationsinexchangerates; whereastheCommunitytariffquotainquestionmust
therefore be opened on 1 January. 1981, the total quota volume of 50 000 tonnes being divided into two parts according to the tariff arrangements applicable;
Whereas, under Article 64 of the Act of Accession, Greece shall be required, for the product in question, to'apply the Common Customs Tariff duty in full from
1 January 1981; whereas from that date, therefore, quantities required by that Member State from non-member countries should be covered by the tariff quota in question
for the duration of the quota period;
Whereas equal and continuous access to the quota should be ensured for all
Community importe>sand the rate of duty for the tariff quota should be applied umnter
ruptedly inallMemberStatestoallimportsoftheproductinquestionuntil the quota is exhausted; whereas in the light of these principles, arrangements for the utilization of the Community tariff quota based on an allocation among the Member States would seem to be consistent with the Community nature of the quota ;
whereas, in order that it may correspond as closely as possible to the actual trend of the market in the product in question, the quota should be allocateq in proportion to the requirements of the Member States as calculated by re­
ference to statistics of imports from third countries during a representative reference period and to the economic outlook for the quota year in question;
 Whereas, over the Last three years for which full statistics are available, almost all imports of beef and veal from non-member countries into the Com­ munity of Nine have been effected under special arrangements; whereas during this period imports into Greece were effected under completely different ar­ rangements from those applicable in the Community; whereas the economic data thus obtained cannot be used for the purposes of comparison and may therefore not be representative of the trend of imports into each of the Member States;
w ereas, in the light of these factors and given that it is difficult to esti­ mate the Member States' import requirements in 1981, in order to apportion the tariff quota equitably and safeguard its Community nature, the initial percentage shares of each of the Member States should be fixed at the following levels :
Ireland 0.01
"Whereas, kotakeaccountoffuturetrondoofimportooftheproductunder
■ cuDta voU'tfes should b consideration into the various Member States, c'no H
&ivid<?d intp two tranches, tho first "bolnc allooatod amone Statesandthosocondheldaaaro3orvoto beusedsubsequentlyfocoverthe requirementsofMcmborStatos, shouldtheyexhausttlioxrmxtlal.oharos, v/hcrcao, tocivoimportoraiw-fcachMemberStat©somodoffrooof• • .
cortainty, tho first tranoho of' "each qubt^volume". should in this instance be xedat approximately 90% of its full wnovuvt; , . ' ' ; '■
 Wlicrcaa jTIonfoor Siatco*may oxhauat their ifiitial 0harea at difforcnt rates'; whereas "bo avoid disruption of GUppliee on this account it
Stipulated
ohould "bo*. that any KGinbor Stato tohioh has almost uec& up ono
of i-ia initial eharoa should ;draw an additional Eharo from tho appropriate 'reeorve ; ' wheroao oaeh tinio its additional share io almost- exhauotod a. Homhor. Stato should dravr a furthor charo, and tio on ao
many tiraoo as tho reoorvo allows; whoroao tho initial and additonal charos Bhould "bo valid until tho ond of tho quota period; vhoroaa this form of adminiotration requires oloao'*colla"boratidn "botwoon tho IIe.T."bor Statoa and tho Commission', and tho Coromissiorf must "bo in a pooition
to keep account of tho oxtont to whioh tho quota/ havO "boon^uaod up' "* •
and . inform tfio Mombor States accordingly; / -
Whoroaa if at a givon dato in tho quota period a oonsidorahlo quantity of a Mom'bor Stato ?s initial sharp remains unuaod', it io cosontial,
to provont a part of tho tariff quota from remaining umiso& in ono
Jlcrabor Stato whilo it could "bo wood in othorp , that suoh Si. ito ohould roturn a significant proportion thoroof to tho appropriato r<jooxv6;
. Wboreas , ravce the Kingdom of Kelgi'-Jai.j, the Kingdom of/ Nether landm-
an t.ha _ Grand D'.'.chy of. -Luxembourg are. urtitat? v?ithin and jo1r Iy
rep re sen fed by the Benelux Eco-'rojr.T.e Union , any transaction in re­ spect of the administr?,11oa of the sbare allocated to that EcoucTnic Union may be carried out by any one of its members :
1 . Ther§ is hereby opened in respect of the period 1 January to
31 December 1981 a Community tariff quota of 50 000 tonnes of fro- i
zen beef and veal, expressed as boned or boneless meat, falling within subheading 02*0i A II b) of the Common Customs Tariff.
For the purpose of charging imports against this quota, 100 kilo­ grammes of unboned (bone-in) meat shall be taken to be equivalent to 77 kilogrammes of boned or boneless meat .
2. Imports of these goods which have been, admitted under arrangements
other preferential tariff / shall not be set off against this tariff quota. » . • ■
3. The Common Customs Tariff duty for this quota shall be 20 %.
1. The quantity of ;50 000 to.nnes referred to 1n Article 1(1) shall be divided Into two jiarts, one of 33 500 tonnes, the other of V, 500 tonnes. EachoneofthosepartsshallbesubdividedIntotwotranches,
shail be allocated as follows among the Member States, the shares being
valid from 1 January until 31 December 1981 subject to the'provisions of Article5: • '*. ' .•, '■' •
Of the 33 500 tonnes
Of the 16 500 tonnes
roopootivoly Ghall •
Jo Tho Bocond branches of 3 350- and 1 650 tonnes
1. Aq coon as a Kombor State has usod or more of ono of ito initial
charos as iTixod in Article 2(2), or of thatrsharo triinua ai>y portion
returned to the appropriate reserve pursuant to tho provisions of
A-r^iole5» itshallTorthtvith^laynotifyingtfro'Commission, drawa. oocond
ohard, to tho cxtont thr.t tho appropriate roserve so pom^ito, equal to 10$ of its initial share/ rounded up, If necessary, to tho nsxt wholcnqmber
2. As coon as a?Member State, having czdianated one of its
initial shares , h&a uaed 9 or more of tho • oocond share ura'.m "o;r it , that Mor.il>or Stat© ehall forthwith? iii tho maimer and to tho oxter-.t laid
down . in 1p draw & third r.har© 'equal to $fe of its initial- c• ».«
3. As soon as a Member State, having exhausted one of its second shares,
has used 90 % or more of the third share drawn by it, that Member State shall,
in the menner and to the extent described above, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
It shall continue in this fashion until the reserve is exhausted.
 4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 to 3, a Member State may draw shares Lower th^n specified in those paragraphs if there are grounds for believing that those specified may not be used in full. Any Member State applying the
provisions of this paragraph shall inform the Commission of its grounds for so doing.
Sach of the additional oharos drawn pursuant to the provisions of Artiolo 3 shall "bo valid until 31 Deoember 198'1 .
Tho Member States shall rotxirn to tho reoorvo, not l"atorthan 1 October 1981, the unuGod portion of thoir .initio! shareswhicry on 15 f3optomber 19.01, "ig in excess of 20 l/> of tho initial amount * ' They rrtay return a greater portion if there oro rroundo for "boliovin^; thc.t "such portion may" not bo used in iVLl
member Sta^fcoa shallf not lator than 1 October 1981, notify uho Corrj.-iiscion
©f the t'ot&l guroititios of tho precinct in Question imported up to and
l/ioludin# 15 September 'i981 tmd charged against tho Com/mmity quota and of . any portion of their initial chares returned to tho approi-ieto recervo,
The Coronascion cnall keep an account of tho charea opened by the Jlcmber States pursuant to tho, provisions cf Ay-ticleo 2 and 3 and ohoil? ar; coon ao tho inf<?rpir-.tibn reaches it, iixforai each Stet© of tho extent to which i&erocorvacjhavebeenusedup#. \. ' . * '
 It shall, not later -than 5 Octubtfr 1981 , inform tVo Merib.ir States 0+ the . amounts still in roGorvo following any return of ohare3 purfsnant to
It stoall ensure that whon ail r.mpunt exhausting a reserve 1G drawn the amount 'so drawn doosnot exceed the balance avc-11able,. and to this end shall notify tho amount of that balance to the Member State waking the last
1. Evary Kenfoor State shall take all appropriate meauurco to cmp/uro that additional shores drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in each a way that
imports jnay be chargod without interruption against i-to accumilated .shares of the Community quota, • • / , ;
2«- It shall ensure •sliat importora of the product in question established
in its territory have free aocoss "to the shoroo allocated to i^fc. '
3 . (The extent to vhioh a Morabor State ha.o Used \ip its chares sholl bo ' ''
dotormined 'by rofevenoo to the imports of the product in question
entered with the customs authorities .for homo 'Use# .
Oh -reoeipt of a roquest . from the Commission, the Member States shall notify it of the imports effectively charged against their shares*
The Member States and tho Comraisoion shall .cooporat? oloooly to ensure that this Jlogulation is complied With. . ; '
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1981 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels ,
1980 For the Counci I The President
Ierland 0,01
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC )
on the opening, allocation and administration of a Community tariff quota for frozen beef and veal falling within subheading 02.01 A lib)
of the Common Customs Tariff (1981)
( submitted to the Council by the Commission )
1 . During the GATT multilateral negotiations the European Economic Community undertook to open an annual Community tariff quota of 50,000 tonnes of frozen beef and veal, expressed as boned or boneless meat, falling within subheading 02,01 A II b) of the Common Customs
^Tariff at 20^ duty, Compensatory amounts introduced in connection
with fluctuations in exchange rates are to be levied on J6 500 tonnes
of this, quota,
In this connection, it should be mentioned.that, as a result of the possibility , to apply the system of monetary compensatory amounts to a vo-" iurae of 16 500 tonnes , the Commission has been led in its proposal to split the total quota volume of 50 000 tonnes into two parts, one of 33 500 tonnes and the other of 16 500 tonnes , to be allocated separately among all the
Member States , including Greece, which, under Article 64 of the Act of AcTM' .
cession, is required to apply the Commun Customs Tariff duty in respect of this meat, from 1 January 1981.
3. Itshouldbenoted,withregardtothisallocation,thatinrecentyears almost all imports of frozen beef and veal into the Community of Nine have .been effected under special arrangements (eeg. GATT quota, Iinket*=s_ales system,- ACP p ferential arrangements and balance of meat processing). It is therefore pos­ sible that these figures are not representative of the trend of imports and re~ quirementsineachoftheMemberStates.Furthermore,theeconomicprospects v for the quota year in question cannot be assessed sufficiently accurately. In addition, the arrangements for the importation of frozen beef applied by
Greece in recent years differed appreciably from those in force in the Community
Consequently, to meet the Community s obligations, a regulation
should be- abopted before 1 January 1980 on the opening, allocation and administration of the Community tariff quota in question. -
of Nine, so that the figures available for this country cannot be compared with those of each of the Member States of the Community of Nine.
For these reasons, the Commission proposes that the breakdown used in 1980 should be retained • except for Ireland, which has been allocated 0.01 % -
irt order to maintain the Community nature of the quota, and that Greece should be given a quota share of 3 %, corresponding to its presumed requirements.
4. In view of Che relatively high level of the Community tariff,quota
opened initiallv in relation to import requirements, the Commission to
believes, thatitWouldruncontrary/theCommunitynatureofthequota
to allocate the tariff Volumes in definitive shares to the Member States#
For this reason, the proposal annexed hereto provides for the
creation of Community reserves which, even if they are limited to •
10 7, of each of" the quota volumes,will assist in ensuring equal access for all importers and* in avoiding a situation
where customs preference is no longer applied iu ons or snore Member
States while, it. is still applied in others*
on the opening, allocation and administration of a Community tariff quota for frozen beef and veal falling within subheading 02.01 A II b) of "the
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 113 and 43 thereof, , •
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion.of the European Parliament, ■ t
Whereas in the course of the GATT multilateral negotiations the European
Economic Community undertook to open an annual Community tariff quota at 20 %
duty in respect of 50 000 tonnes of ftozen beef and veal, falling within subheading
02.01 A II b) and expressed as boned or boneless meat, of which 16 500 tonnes may be subjected to the application of compensatory amounts introduced because of the fluctuations in exchange rates; whereas the Community tariff quota in question must therefore be opened on 1 January. 198.1, the total quota volume of 50 000 tonnes being
^divided into two parts according to the tariff arrangements applicable;
Whereas, under Article 64 of the Act of Accession pf Greece, that country shall be reqired,for the product in question, to apply the Common Customs Tariff duty in full from
1 January 1981; whereas from that date, therefore, quantities required by that Member State from non-member countries should be covered by the tariff quota in question
for the duration of the quota period;
Whereas equal and continuous access to the quota should be ensured for all . Community importe-sand the rate of duty for the tariff quota should be applied uninter­
ruptedly inallMemberStatestoallimportsoftheproductinquestionuntil the quota is exhausted; whereas in the light of these principles, arrangements ' for the utilization of the Community tariff qupta based on an allocation among - the Member States would seem to be consistent with the Community nature of the quota; - ''
whereas, in order that it may correspond as closely as possible to the actual •
trend of the market in the product in question, the quota should be allocated . . '*'
in proportion to the requirements of the Member States as calculated by re­ ferencetostatisticsofimportsfrom, third-countries,during,a^representative reference period and to the economic;outlook:for the quota-year in.question;
 Whereas, over the last three years for which full statistics are available, almost all imports of beef and veal from non-member countries into the Com­ munity of Nine have been effected under special arrangements; whereas during this period imports into Greece were effected under completely different ar­ rangements from those applicable in the Community; whereas the economic data thus obtained cannot be used for the purposes of comparison and may therefore not be representative of the trend of imports into each of the Member States;
w ereas, in the light of these factors and given that it is difficult to esti­ mate the Member States' import requirements in 1981, in order to apportion the tariff quota equitably and safeguard its Community nature, the initial percentage shares of each of the Member States should be fixed at the following levels :
Germany 18.54 Greece 3.00 France 10.30 Ireland 0.01 Italy 28.83 United Kingdom 29.02
• Whereas, ''ko 'take account of future trondo of .iroporto of the product under .
'? ., ^■ . '• ' . consideration into the various Member States ,
rhacruotavolumes'shouldb ^
divided into two tranches, the first •''♦.'*'...u
allocatod araonc the }iOjrfoor>
a roaorvo to be used subsequent ty fo cover , the
■ certainty, the firct tranoho of; -each qupta-volume*.. should, in this.instance be
And' tho second held '-as.
: requirements "of Member Statos, ' should they exhaust thoir initial .oharoe;
 to kocp account of tho ojctont to
whioh tho quota/ hav^ "boon-used up
and . inform tho -Momhor States accordingly; ' Z a
Whereaa Kcm"bor States*may exhaust- their* ipi"I;xal bhcuraa* at different _ ,
vtxtoo; -whereas -bo avoid.disruption^:? supplies on this aocount l;t Stipulated ' ' .• - .,
should "bo thai any Konbor Stato "whioh has almost used up ono cf ±~IG xjaitial eharos should :draw an additional charo from tho
àpproprinta 'rocjorve ; " whcrc&o' oaeh tirào ite addii ional shuro ic almost- oxhauotoda.Horrtbcr.'Stato.shoulddrawafurthorshare," and-aoonao .
sharo8 should ho valid"- until tho ond of' tho quota period; vh'oroas this
fonn of actainintration requires olosd'-'colla'boration "botvxoon thoi licmoor
Statoo and tho Commission*, and tho Commission must "bo in a position
Whoroas if at a given date in tho Quota period a oonsidorablo quantity • \* •<»
of a Jfombor State's initial sharp remains tumaody it is essential,
to provont a- part of tho tariff quota from remaining uiiusod in ono ' I-tcm'bor Stato while it could ho"unod in othor?,-that suoh S'lvfco should return a significant proportion thoroofto tho appropriate. rasorvb:
and the Gi'and Duchy of. Luxembourg are united within and jointly represented;by the Benelux Ecbnomic Union, any transaction in re– '■ spect1 of the administration of the share allocated to that Economic
Union may be carried out by any one of' its members:
.Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium., the Kingdom of/Netherlands -
-•the ......-r.
1 . There is hereby opened in respect of the peirxod 1 January to
31 December 1981 a Community tariff quota of 50 000 tonnes of fro- I
zen beef and veal, expressed as boned or boneless meat, falling ItI
within subheading 02.01 A II b) of the Common Customs Tariff ,
For the purpose of charging imports against this quota, 100 kilo­ grammes of unboned (bone-in)' meat shall be taken to be equivalent to 77 kilogrammes of boned or boneless meat.
2. imports of these goods which have been admitted under - arrangements
t>ther preferential tariff / shall not be set off against this tariff quota.
3. The Common Customs Tariff duty for this quota snail be 20 %.
1., Thequantityof'50000tonnesreferredtoinArticle1<1>shall bedividedintotwojsarts,oneof33500tonnes,theother,of1650C-• ; tonnes. Eachoneofthosepartsshallbesubdividedintotwotranches.1
2- Th6.first-tranchesof"'30i50;tonnesand14850''tonnesrespectively• >kaU- be allocated,as follows among the Member States/the shares being' ! .validfromVJanuaryuntil310ecemberi981subjecttot^eprovisionsof """"
Of the 33 §00 tonnes
Of the 16 5QQ tonnes
Tho Bocond branches .or 3 350< and 1 650 ' .. tonnes , resspootivoly Ghall
•I, Ao coon as a. Member State has usod 99^ <>v mo^o of ono of" ita initial
chores as Tixod in Article, 2(2) ^ or of thai^ eharo iriinua arxf portion returned to tho approjiriatG reserve purcruant to tho provisions of
Arbicle 5, it shall 'forthwith, "by r.otifyx'ng tho'Commission{ draw a. oooond •••••
oharc, to the cxtont thr.t tho appropriate roserve so porrnito.* '. ©qua! to
left or ita initial ehsro* rounded up, if necessary, to the next whole*nqmber
•initial' chares, 'h&o 'Used or more; of tho'&acond share drawn Iby it, , .
thai Korabcr Stat© ehall forthwith» 'isi. tlio Biaamor and to tho' extent laid 'down .;inparagraphlf;&raw&thirduhfer©'equal-to5$ its- initial* '
3 . As soon as a' Member State , hav.inq exhausted one of its second shares ,
has used 90 % or more of the third share drawn by it, that Member State shall,
in the menner and to the extent described above, draw a fourth share equal to the third .
It shall continue in this fashion until the reserve is exhausted. ,
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1 to 3, a Member State may draw shares Lower than- specified in those paragraphs if there are grounds for believing that those specified may not be used in full. Any Member State applying the
provisions of this paragraph shall inform the Commission of its grounds for so doing. •
V•'.\*'1».'' s/ Each of the additional chares drawn pursuant "to the provisions of Artxolo 3 .
shall "bo valid "until 31 DeoeBibor 19"8'1. *' ,v " . ' - . " .
The Member States Bhn.ll return to tho renorvo, not l'atortivui 1 Ootooor 1981 • the urmoocl portion, of their initio! shsrGSwhicly on 15 Scptoniber *is in excess of 20 $ of the initio?!, amount * They r»v?y roturn a' greater por-tion if
there ore ^ronndnfor T>oliovinft' thai 'such portion may not ' "bo used' in full »'
ef the t'oteOL quantities of the product in question iwportod. up to- and including 15 September "981 mid charged against'-tho Comnronity quota, and.o'f any portion of their initial chares returned to th©_ approiriata reserve.
The Commission ehall keep an account of the charea opened "by the Ucnibor
 It shall /' not later than 5 October 1981 , -inform tho tfetfbrir States pi 'the .- amounts still in reserve following any 'return" of si»dro3 pursuant to •
It sHail ensure ' that Whon' an rjno^nt csdiousting a reserve is drawn the amount "so drawn docs' not exceed the Wlance a.voila"bl'o~,.. and to- this end shall ...
notify tho - :amount . of that "balance to the Member State waking the last . • ν*··» ·.·*·
1. Evory ITenfoer Stato shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that' additional shores drawn pursuant to Article 5 are opened in such a way that
imports ' may "be chargod \/ithout interruption against its accumulated .charea of the Conununity quota,*/ ' • ' | ! ; .
2,' It shall cneure that importoru'of.the product in question established in it o territory have free aocoao to the eharec allocated to' £%« '
•• "• . .' 3„ • The extent to "which a T'lcmbor Stat© has used up it13 chares shell "be
doter-mined sy rofavcrjoo to the imports of the product in question ; ' entered with, the customs authorities .for home 'use « • '
On reoeipt of a roguest from the Commission, the Member States shall notify it' of the imports effectively , charged «gairtst their' shares *
'I'.■"' . '' ; The Member States , and the .Commission shall' . cooperate oloosly to ensure
that this Regulation is complied with• . • • ' '
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1981 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels , 1980 For the Counci I The President
Frankrig Irland Italica iVt **
