In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(Communication from Mr. CHEYSSON)
- This question is on the agenda for the 576th meeting of the Commission Strasbourg, on Wednesday 15th October 1980. under item 18 a.
To : Members of the Commission Mr. MEYER
 . Follow-up to the parliamentary debate on hunger in the world
Commission communication to the Council
 Commission Communication to the Council
Follow-up to the parliamentary debate on world hunger - Council (Development) meeting of 18 November
Parliament 's debate on world hunger was the occasion for Intensive
work and discussions/ culminating 1n the adoption of a comprehensively-wooded resolution covering all the various aspects of this Issue under four main headings :
I. The fight against hunger 1n the context of the new relations between Industrialized and developing countries .
II. Agricultural and rural development in the developing countries. III. Community food aid.
IV. International trade 1n agricultural products and food s tuffs.
The Commission/ as 1t pointed out 1n the course of the debate/ endorses the bulk of the recommendations made 1n the resolution and Intends
to take the necessary action on them as swiftly as possible. A number
of proposals now before the Council 1n fact already correspond to some
of the guidelines contained in the resolution (with regard to food aid/ fibr example). The Commission will also putting forward either to the Council
or in the political cooperation framework/ a number of other Initiatives aimed either at improving or supplementing the Community's capabilities 1^
this field or at suggesting positions which the Community as such could
support 1n international fora (particularly the North-South Dialogue) concerned with agricultural and nutritional development in the developing countries.
 It will moreover endeavour to direct or reorient activities for whose Implementation 1t 1s responsible (programming under Lom6 ZZ or the
selection of projects for non-associated developing countries) along the lines
proposed by Parliament. And 1t will do all 1t can to prepare the various studies and reports requested of 1t so that 1t and the other Institutions can '
have the facts and figures needed to assess the situation and arrive at decisions .
The actions to which the Commission has committed Itself 1n order to implement the resolution will of course have to be matched by equal determi­
nation on the part of the Council/ which will be required to express its
own opinion on both the general guidelines set out in the resolution and the
proposals which have already been or are to be submitted to 1t for this purpose .
Accordingly/ the aim of this Communication/ taking as a basis the major themes of the resolution/ is to lay before the Council the Information wlHch will enable It to view in context the proposals which have been or will be submitted to it as part of the comprehensive approach to the problems of world hunger which is underwritten by both Parliament and the Commission/
and thus help it to take the necessary measures.
In so acting the Council would decisively strengthen whatever Impact the parliamentary debate may have had on the European public/ who must be kejta
constantly aware of this Issue. It would also Increase the effectiveness of the Community's various means of tackling this scourge.
 X. The fight against hunger In the context of the new relations between industrialized and developing countries
The resolution adopted by Parliament rightly devotes considerable attention to the general development issues which to a great extent
determine how much progress can be looked for in the specific field of thii struggle against world hunger.
It 1s not the aim of this paper to go into these various issues/ which would each have to be dealt with at great length .
However, the Commission would point out that 1t has already drawn extensively on Parliament 's views in its proposals designed to prepare the Community position on the International Development Strategy for
the Third Development Decade. The text of the Strategy negotiated at the 11th special session of the United Nations, which will be submitted for approval by the 35th General Assembly , incorporates in its - chapter on agriculture and food many of the suggestions put forward on this basis by the Community.
However, 1t is undoubtedly desirable to go beyond the meritably general recommendations contained in such a document. Accordingly, in its proposals regarding the agenda for the global negotiations, the Community has identified
the issue of agriculture and food as one of the three key elements of any future North -South dialogue. The Commission will submit detailed proposals on this matter if agreement 1s reached on the conditions under which such
a dialogue would be conducted and on the basis of the agenda adopted.
 In the meantime, however, two specific suggestions are under consideration by Commission staff :
Community participation 1n the replenishment and boosting of IFAD : the IFAD authorities are .currently holding consultations on this question, and their findings should be available in time for the
next meeting of the Governing Council towards the end of the year.
The Commission will submit the proposals it considers necessary as sdbn
as this Information comes to hand . ι
11. A new IMF facility to assist countries facing food problems caused by the
rising cost of food imports. The IMF's Board of Governors 1s to continue 4
discussions on this topic. The Interim Committee, meeting at the end of September in Washington, expressed interest in such a scheme and hofied that the Board would take a rapid decision.
 5. ZZ. Agricultural and rural development In the developing countries
On this point the resolution highlights the need to give real priority to Improving local, national and regional self-sufficiency and food
security .
Zn particular, the resolution stresses the crucial Importance of the decisions which the developing countries' authorities have to take
within the framework of their national development programmes to lay ttown the lines along which the agricultural ( 1 ) and rural sector of the economy is to develop, and 1n this connection recommends that food pUns
or strategies be adopted.
The Commission very largely agrees with the views expressed by Parllailien.t regarding both this general approach and the more specific recommendations stressing the need for a proper balance between agricultural and indus­ trial development or between crops for domestic consumption and export crops, and the key importance of integrated rural development programme*, structural policy (agrarian reform, marketing, etc.), Internal prices arid
credit, grasroots participation and the role of women 1n the Third Wo'Hd. 1
It will therefore endeavour, as requested, to channel the technical alSd financial aid resources for whose use it is responsible along the Units Indicated above.
Zt is therefore doing Its best, 1n programming aid under Lom6 ZZ and selecting the projects to be funded 1n the ACP States, to bring home 4o
the beneficiaries the value of an approach based on set agricultural a^d rural development plans or strategies. Zn this connection it has decided
to take part in a "workshop" organized by the World Food Council to b't held this November with the aim of helping any African countries whic^i are interested to draw ip such strategies. It has also undertaken to support
(1) Zn the broadest sense, including fisheries, etc.
 the attempts of the Permanent Inter-State Committee for Drought Control 1n the Sahel to devise and develop national and regional grain policies.
It 1s not the Intention here to give a complete run-down of all current or planned operations (at this stage of programming the ACP States are
Intending to devote about 40 % of the fifth EDF to rural development almost/
schemes, while the non-associated countries use/all EEC money for that purpose)/ but to indicate the direction 1n which the Commission 1s intending to push Its commitment/ to the extent that Its developlng-country partners are willing to let it do so.
A number of other activities are or shortly will be under way. In the field of research/ for Instance/ the Community makes an annual contribution
(as part of its aid to non-associated developing countries) to various hesea centres or Institutes working under the aegis of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research. But so far the Community has done tyery little to finance applied research operations under the EOF. The Commission is ready to extend this facility if asked to do so by ACP States .
However/ the new Lom6 Convention acklowledges the Importance of such work
1n that 1t embodies a decision to set up a Technical Centre of Agricultural and Rural Cooperation to improve the flow of information between research (Including training and extension) facilities In the different ACP States and between them and the Member States of the Community. The Commission will
do all it can to see that the Centre can start functioning as soon as possible after the entry into force of the Convention.
A. Community food aid
(a) The key principle informing the resolution on this Issue 1s tha4
food aid should beconie much more of an instrument of the
Community's rural development and food security policy than 1t lias been hitherto .
. This is the Idea behind the recommendations to :
- link more food aid operations to development projects, particularly
under the EDF;
- allow multiarmual food aid commitments ;
- Incorporate food alid in food security schemes and, within thlil
framework, offer the possibility of using it for stockpiling.
Without waiting for the final outcome of the parliamentary debase, the Commission has put forward a number of proposals on these matters
(COM<80)478 final), and hopes that the Council will adopt the draft resolution on this issue at its meeting on 18 November. (1)
(b) The second principle laid down by Parliament concerns the need to ensure that food aid 1s better suited, 1n both quantitative and
qualitative terms, to the needs of the developing countries.
- Improving the quality of food aid presupposes various things :
( 1 ) this supposes that it proves possible » for the Council to adopt
the proposed regulation concerning food aid policy and its' management referred to in para. 9 of this document, and which amongst other things, allows for multiarmual food aid commitments by the
Community as well as the use of limited quantities cf food aid for
 . offering products which are better adapted to redplents'needs : in this connection 1t 1s regarded as Important to-include new
products 1n the range supplied by the Community, whether they are available Internally (e.g. vegetable oil ) or can be purchased 1n developing countries . ("triangular" operations ) in order to respond to emergency requirements.
The document just mentioned also contains a Commission proposal to the
Council for a regulation which 1t hopes will be adopted at the ' 18 November meeting.
Moreover the Commission requests the Council to approve the proposals to enter 5 million EUA under the heading "Other products" and to increase the sugar allocation by about 4 000 tonnes particularly
to meet requests for emergency aid .
\é». » ■ .a a i «_ • i .i _• (1) - Better quality control : the Commission has adopted new rules
to allow more effective action 1n this field and hopes also that the budgetary authority will give 1t the funds needed to implement properly the complementary controls which may be needed
(1) EEC Regulation no. 1974/80 of 22 July 1980 (O.J. no.Ll92 of 26.7.80) laying down general Implementing rules in respect of certain . food aid operations involving cereals and rice .
(2) article 9261 of the budget.
 - As regards food aid quantities, the Commission has proposed that,
for cereals, the amount be Increased to the level which the Community undertook to supply under the Food Aid Convention.
Another* Commission proposal is that the quantities previously proposed for inilk powder be maintained whilst those for butteroll
be slightly reduced. On this last point, it is worrying to note thai!
the Council, in spite of this effort at moderation, does not at this juncture accept the Commission's proposition. ,
c) The third principle proposed by Parliament concerns Improvements to the <
administration of food aid .
In particular, it asks that :
- the Council adopt without delay the regulation on food aid;
- the Commission strengthen, reorganize or improve the coordination of its work. *
On the first of these points, the Commission likewise considers 1t essential that the draft regulation submitted almost two years ago ( 1 ) be adopted at
the next Council Development meeting, since this 1s virtually a sine qfaa Hon for improving the effectiveness of food aid.^
As regards the organization of its own activities, the Commission considers that there can be no real improvement in this field unless the numbers
of staff 1n the food aid division are Increased. Proposals for such an increase are included in the budget . The Council 1s asked to consider 'this
request bearing in mind that this is another factor which coould decisively affect the effectiveness of Community food aid operations.
(2) see page 7, footnote
B. Action at International level
Two main recommendations emerge from Parliament's resolution :
1. renew beyond the present year the existing Food Aid Convention andallow for an appropriate Increase 1n the Community's commitment; the Commission will put proposals about this before the Council
at the appropriate time, i.e. during the first half of 1981;
11 . the International Emergency Food Reserve should be guaranteed b^ adopting the FAO proposal and basing 1t on an International conten­
tion from now on. On this point the Community expressed grave reservations regarding an initiative which offers no guarar/iee
that it can increase governmertts' emergency aid commitments and which cannot be relied upon to be so much more efficient than t^e
present system, since the centralization of schemes of this typl^ provides no assurance that this will be so. The Community considers that the same objective could be attained by strengthening the (Ma­ chinery for coordination between the Reserve itself, to which contributions would remain voluntary, and the aid from the various donors . Moreover , the Commission has already voiced this opinion within the Committee on Food Aid Policies and Programmes, held
at Rome from 13-20 October 1980.
<1) it 1s recalled that 1n 1979 the Community and Member States contributed more than 35 X of the Reserve's total.
The resolution states that in the context of the campaign against world hun­ ger the Community should set itself two main objectives :
i. the encouragement of greater participation by the developing countries in international trade;
ii . the promotion of the stabilization of their food supplies .
The Commission is also requested"to 4raw to a trade policy in the agricultural sector which would be compatible with the Community's development policy".
During the debate the Commission has already had the opportunity of putting right certain criticisms concerning the connection between the CAP an^ third world agricultural development. In fact the Commission considers that
it is possible to develop the complementarities between internal and
external agricultural policies of the Community. With this in mind it agreed to undertake the study suggested in the resolution concerning : '
•'-the effects of the CAP on international trade in foodstuffs "the effects of Community agricultural exports on world markets
and on the developing countries ".
In the light of this study it will be possible to formulate specific ^ proposals and put them to the Council.
The Commission considers/ however/ that it should already bring to th4' Council's attention some of the major measures at present under discussion or being implemented in the sphere of trade and the organization of international trade in agricultural products :
Tariff dismantling : during the debate , the Commission pointed out
that 50 X of the Third World's agricultural products were already entering the Community duty-free, 45 % at reduced rates of duty and
5 % at the full rates of duty. Overall, the Community was therefore
the world's top importer of agricultural products. The most recent initiatives taken in this respect concerned the offer made for tropical products in the Tokyo Round without any demand being made for recipro­ city, and improved arrangements for access by agricultural products
of. importance to the ACP States, which are among the most dependent on agricultural exports . In these circumstances , the Commission could only propose limited improvements in its proposals under the GSP, the idea being that greater liberalization in this sphere could be attained Only progressively .
11. Integrated Programme and Common Fund : the negotiations recently concluded on the establishment of the Common Fund constitue a major achievement
to which the Community made an active contribution. Apart from the
Second Window, the "raison d'Stre" of this Fund lies in the support
which it can give to the operation of the commodity agreements.
It is therefore important that / as recommended by Parliament , the Community should participate in as constructive spirit as possible in the current negotiation of agreements for which the Commission has
presented proposals whether it is the cocoa agreement ( see C0M(80 ) 546 final) that is involved or the Community's participation in the sugar agreement ( C0M(80)475 final ). The Commission would like the Council's deliberations on this point to be concluded quickly.
 111. Security of grains supplies for developing countries : the
Community 1s at present taking part 1n the technical discussions being held 1n preparation for a possible further negotiating confe1, rence on a grains agreement. On this occasion, the need for International aid for stockpiling in the developing countries must be
taken into account; if it appears unlikely that this matter can be
dealt with in the context of the agreement itself
essentially commercial nature, a mechanism must be found which can
help tovards financing the reserve stocks held by the developing countri through combined action by bilateral donors and international organiza­ tions such as the World Bank (see in this connection its paper on the stockpiling and distribution of grains in the eighties) or the IMF, as
part of its machinery for financing buffer stocks.
The Commission considers that, within a framework still to be defined(2) the Community should take the necessary initiatives at international level to secure the adoption in parallel with the conclusion of a new grains agreement, of provisions enabling the developing countries to benefit effectively from the new machinery for stabilizing the market
(1) See document CL 90/7 Add. 4 of 6 June 1980 of the Executive Secretariat of the International Wheat Council .
(2) This may form one of the topics to be dealt with in the global nego­ tiations .
. owing to its
 1v. Community agricultural export policy : as pointed out by the Commission representative at the parliamentary debate, the Community must consider what action it can and must take at world level in the campaign against world hunger, and it must ensure that' its own agricultural strategy can help to meet
the developing countries' needs in ways compatible with their own development policy. In order for this to be done and for the Community's action to be sufficiently predictable, the Commission indicated that the Community should have the necessary means to
make medium- and long-term commitments. This element will obviously be taken into account in the study which the Commission is under­ taking into the r3le the Community's agricultural policy has in
trade with the third world. It will contribute to the considerations currently being given to agricultural policy which, as indicated
by the Commission must also be considered as an "essential part of the Community's contribution to the world food strategy".
Action along these lines has already been initiated with regard
to the ACP States. It should be pointed, out that, under the Interim measures, the Community accepted the advance application of the declaration included in the minutes of the signing of the second Lom6 Convention concerning the supply to the ACP States of agricultural products available in the Community; the Council approved a Commission
proposal to that end, namely that a proposal be put before the Co-Chairman of the ACP-EEC Specialized Committee on Trade Cooperation concerning the setting up of an ACP-EEC group of experts to enable
the Commission to provide detailed information on the opportunities offered, in this sphere, by the instruments of the common agricultural policy, and also to enable the ACP states to indicate their long-term
 The Council is therefore asked :
• to pronounce on the general orientations and lines of action proposed by the Commission, as a follow-up to the parliamentary resolution
on hunger in the world
** to take the decisions recommended by the Commission on the specific propositions currently submitted.
