In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
(1) C0M(81) 129 Final - (3) C0MC81) 53 Final (2) C0MC81) 61 Final (4) C0MC81) 555 Final
(Revised text following the special meeting of Chefs de Cabinet)
(Communication by M. HAFERKAMP, by M. DAVIGNON, by ^NARJES and by M. PISANI)
- This question is on the agenda of the 619th meeting of the Commission/ Wednesday 30 September 1981 - under item 11 a .
v^Jhe Multifibre Arrangement expires on 31 December 1981, while most of the Community's 28bilateral textile agreements (the vast majority of which
are based on Article 4 of the MFA) expire on 31 December 1982.
For the C^fl^nity the latter agreements, by laying down voluntary restraint quotas on exjS^pJs of textile products and clothing, are a concrete expression of the objectively pursued by it under the MFA. It is therefore difficult
for the Community to formulate its definitive position on renewal of the
MFA without having at least set its overall objectives with regard to renewal of the bilateral agreemen&u
That is why the Council has asl^^ the Commission to present its Communication and its Recommendation on the future bilateral agreements in good time for it to be able to decide, in October, on its definitive position for the MFA and
on objectives with regard to bilateral agj^ements. The Presidency has indicated that it considers the end of September as ^^^absolute deadline for transmission
of the Commission Communication .
The Community 's bilateral agreements are , together with its informal arrangements with preferential countries, the key elements of its commercial policy in the
textile sector. Their economic and hence political imported^* is today greater than ever but a commercial policy on imports is not enough to'^jfate the
conditions in the Community which will enable its industry to re^$Vi its competitiveness and strength . For these reasons the Commission has' this year presented a number of communications and proposals (referred to in the introd­ uction to this communication) which are aimed at supplementing the range of hitherto partial measures. ~%
(a) Community rules ^/r> (b) Transfers between the Member States' shanMi
7. Arrangements for outward processing traffic Content of the bilateral agreements
1. Quantitative limits and growth rates 2 . Flexibility arrangements
4. Double-checking and exchange of statistical information
1 . Maintenance of the concept of the cumulative effect of market disruption kk , System of global ceilings
4. Differentiation according to product sensitivity and supplier country
5 . Open ing^^reVK markets to Community exports II . General structuryof the import arrangements
1. List of products covered, their categorisation and classification
2. Statistical information %
3. Application of the origin
4. Countries with which a bilateral agreement must be considered
5. Fixing and growth of global ceilings in respect of MFA and preferential countries
6. Checking and administering imports effe&jr&d under the proposed arrangements
(a) Outward and inward processing traffic
(c) Handmade and folklore products
(e) Small non-commercial consignments and samples
(f) Recession / review clause
 6. Special provisions for first-time countries and small supplier countries
( a ) Duration of the agreements
(b) Territorial application of the agreements
At its meeting of 13 July this year, the Council took the following decision:
"Acting on a proposal from the Commission, the Council will specify in good time, before undertaking any bilateral negotiations and if possible before the end of October, the detailed objectives of commercial policy, having regard in particular to the above economic objectives and after evaluating
Jt^ie results of the commercial policy decisions taken in 1977.
The Council will also review the degree of sensitivity of imported products, the criteria to be applied for this purpose and also the classification of MFA products.
The Commun^A^ wi11 strive to ensure that these objectives are attained, particularly^®, the course of the negotiations for bilateral MFA agreements,
in accordance vfeh an appropriate timetable and with directives to be adopted in due course by^he Council".
This Commission Communication is a response to the various aspects of this decision. The Community a^gady emphasized to the GATT Textiles Committee
in July the interdependence I^J^feen the multilateral and bilateral aspects of the negotiations for the renewa^^f the MFA. At this stage it is vital for
the Council to determine the objectives of the negotiating directives for the bilateral agreements in order to enable the Community to undertake
in parallel the negotiations on the MFA ap^renegotiation of the bilateral .. agreements and to reach a decision on renewltfjjf^f the MFA in the light of progress
made in the bilateral negotiations .
This paper deals in turn with the commercial policy objectives, the general structure of the import arrangements and the proposed content of the bilateral
agreements. The points made to a large extent take account\£^the discussions that have already taken place within the Council on the Commis^Bap Communication
on renewal of the MFA. <Y/
This Communication should be seen in the context of the textile policy of the
Community as a whole. In this connection the Commission draws attention to -Its 1.. /<&
proposals concerning renewal of the MFA , the outward processing arrangements^^
in the textile sector and the new approach on imports of textile products from fyp*
the Mediterranean countries . The Commission also refers to its Report on the
results of the 1977 -commercial policy decisions, which deals with various more technical aspects on which this Communication is based, and to its Communication^
on the situation of the textile and clothing industry in the Community and its future prospects. Lastly, the Commission stresses the tariff context of textile trade and the need for a decision in this matter following the Community's
 statement at the end of the Tokyo round (see Annex I).
At its meeting of 13 July 1981 the Council indicated its agreement to
certain fundamental Community objectives for the negotiations on MFA
renewal. It was decided that these objectives would be spelt out in
detail by the Council later and that, in the light of this examination, the Community would determine its position regarding the scope for amending the . development rates , base levels and flexibility rules .
The Commission is taking the opportunity provided by t he presentation of its recommendation concerning the directives for the negotiation of the bilateral
texti Ij^agreements to formulate in greater detail certain commercial policy
objecti v^^already approved by the Council in order that the latter may take a decision ^^£hem.
With regard to the three possibilities referred to above the Commission
proposes solutions in^eping with the aims sought after and consistent with
the MFA (on this subjec^^e for instance Sections 111.1, III 5 (a) and (f)).
1 . Maintenance of the concept of the cumulative effect of market disruption
The problemof "cumulative market d^^ption" continues to arise with certain
very sensitive products where the Commd^j^ market is characterized by a particularly high penetration rate in r«^ct of total imports from certain major low-cost supplier countries and from smaller low-cost
exporting countries . To resolve this problem , the objective is to seek
over a sufficiently long period, as was done under MF^ II, a rate of development of total imports of these very sensitive p^jlucts from low- cost countries which is compatible with the state of the unity market
and is not liable to upset it . In general , this objective not call into question the access levels laid down under the agreements
2. System of global ceilings 4*0, %
As regards the very sensitive products an overall assessment has been made of import possibilities in the light of the Community's economic needs and international obligations.
On this basis, internal global ceilings are fixed for MFA and preferential countries and for OPT operations. The internal global ceilings are subject to annual growth rates which take account of consumption trends
on the Community market .
Imports of products covered by the textile policy from low-cost countries are subject to a system providing a framework graduated according to
product sensitivity and permitting statistical monitoring . In general , thcySja categories of products which are already the subject of restriction's in tnwsxisting agreements should also be so in future bilateral agreements.
For the woer categories of products, limits can be negotiated according
to product sensitivity and the amount of imports in 1980 compared with extra- EEC imports that year. All categories of products not subject to prior limits would be cowsred by the "basket extractor" system.
I. 4. Differentiation accordirflfoto product sensitivity and supplier country
(a) The products covered will continue to be treated differently according to their sensitivity. The classification of the products is to be revised by reference to the pre^^fo situation as described in the
Commission report on the results ol^Jne commercial policy decisions
adopted in 1977. It is proposed to'mi^tain the device of different product groups classified according to tfe sensitivity of the products
products, the growth rate for imports will inevitably0!!^lower than for other product groups.
As regards the ACP countries, special provisions are set out in the CommisS^^'s March Communication concerning preferential countries (COP (81) 53 final). ^
in question . The annual growth rates for the import levels by product and the various flexibility provisions can be var^d according to the
group to which the product in question belongs. Tl&k
(b) The treatment of imports will also be differentiated according to supplier country . For the dominant , most developed countries , the annual increase in the quotas should be minimal in the case of the most sensitive products. The scope for flexibility should be reduced by such an extent as takes account of these countries' dominant position. Conversely, the growth and flexibility rates applicable
to other supplier countries' quotas may be higher . The various criteria for differentiation are set out in Annex III.
(c) One of the other means which should allow the practical implementation
of^a differentiated approach to supplier countries i ? outward processing tr^teic (OPT). Outward processing must in particular permit a re-
orienfwion of our trade with the supplier countries:
- in the case of the dominant, most developed suppliers so as to replace some of the existing trade flows by OPT in order to make the
trade easier foi^^ipmunity industry to cope with.
- in the case of other so^pliers, so as to increase their total
export opportunities in return for an increase in OPT's share of that total .
% I. 5. Opening up markets to Community exporfk,
The Council has called for an effort to opeiy up markets which currently' fail to offer fair outlets for the Community's textile and clothing exports .
The Community has already made clear in Geneva in the uiagj^Texti les
Committee how much importance it attaches to a contributio^^ newly industrialized and state-trading countries to the expansion of textile
trade by opening up their markets. In the bilateral negotiations
with these countries, the Community could make changes in the conditions
of access to its market dependent upon measures taken by these exportif^^ countries to imporve access to their own markets for the Community's ^
textiles and clothing products.
II. General structure of the import arrangements
The Commission considers that the basic aspects of the import arrangements established in 1977 to implement the Community's textile policy should
be maintained for the duration of the new bilateral agreements. On the whole, the measures taken have proved their worth. Changes should, however, be made to take account of the developments in the situation in the Community 's textile sector in general . Remedies should also be found so
as to avert or cope with particular difficulties (fraud). Lastly, new provisions should be introduced for OPT in accordance with the Commission's propo\sal on this subject.
II. 1. List »7yqroducts covered, their categorization and classification
Article 12 of the MFA specifies the textile products covered by the
Arrangement . The^Community has always indicated in the negotiations with the textile ^^plier countries that it intended the agreements
to cover all texti le^f^ducts falling within CCT Chapters 50 to 62 covered bythe MFA. In $6 case of state-trading countries, special
arrangements have been made covering linen products too. The Commission proposes that the product coverage provisions in the existing bilateral agreements be maintained. tyn
It nevertheless considers that it would^jj^useful to make provision for the merging of certain categories relating to like products^ and
the introduction of some new subcategories 1 .
See Annex IV .
 The Commission would also Like to stress that, in order to ensure uniformity and objectivity vis-a-vis exporting countries with regard to the classification of textile products in the different categories, such classification must be effected in respect of exports from third countries solely on the basis of the provisions in force in the Community concerning the CCT and Nimexe.
The process of checking the nature of the products should be such as to^frpable the classification to be correct and rapid in order to
ensu^^/ith other instruments that the categorization system is effective Consequently, amendments to the CCT and Nimexe and
classification decisions at Community level required for that purpose should be adopted swiftly.
In order to minimize^fctelays to the trade it is proposed that the new bilateral agreements stXmjlate that discrepancies in the classification applicable to products be dealt with by provisionally applying the classification considered appropriate by the competent customs authority at the point of entry iato the Community of the products in question . \
As regards the possibility of creating sljcferate categories for children'
clothing, the Commission is pursuing its discussions with the trade and industry .
 The classification of products in different groups according to their sensitivity will also have to be modified to take account of changes
in the situation in the textile sector since 1977. A number of ideas have already been put forward on this subject in the Commission's report on the results of the commercial policy decisions taken in 1977.
On the basis of that analysis, and in the light of the situation in the
industry, the Commission proposes that categories 12 (socks), 21 (anoraks), and 73 (track suits), in respect of which the rates of penetration
on to the Community market have increased considerably since 1977, shpuld be added to Group I. On the other hand, categories 3 (synthetic fabrics ) and 5 ( pullovers ), where the penetration levels have diminished s&te 1977, should be withdrawn from the present Group I.''
The Comfafesion is also proposing a number of changes in Group II.
For the sake of simplification, it considers that all the other categories should be lumped together in Group III (with the exception
of the categorie^^f linen and ramie products, which will continue
to form a separate ^j^jp) . Within the three groups so constituted it is proposed that te^rle products be separated from clothing
products. The details of these changes are set out in Annex III. SJitaaitliosutivc-ail. itni tfiovjrimaltiiouniI
In order to monitor the development of&wports into the Community of
the textile products covered by the varitfo? categories, the Community's system of statistical surveillance must continue to be applied in respect of all supplying countries. This system will be identical in its structure to that at present in operation.
The Commission draws attention to the need to comply%witf^he time-limits laid down for communicating statistics (Article 12 of Regulation 3059/
78; Article 38 of Regulation 1736/75).
The Commission also considers that it is essential for Member states^^
to be able to communicate regularly to the Commission production-1 statistics for textile products. Proposals to this effect will be submitted later .
As regards preferential countries, a statu quo has been proposed for for 1982; the possibility of changing Group I from 1983 will be examined .
Application of the origin rules
The present bilateral agreements are based on the principle that they apply to any textile or clothing product originating in the supplier
country concerned whether that product be exported directly or indirectly to the Community. This principle must be maintained.
The principle of a definition of origin common to all the agreements, which is an essential instrument for distinguishing between supplier countries,
ira^st be maintained on the basis of existing Community provisions. 4. Count^fos with which a bilateral agreement must be considered
The Commission-considers that in principle the Community should negotiate the
renewal of all i^ existing agreements (Annex V). The Commission
would, however, pc$^ out that some of these agreements(e.g. with Bangladesh, Guatemal^^cd Haiti) do not contain any quotas. The / * countries concerned are <fot only among the Community's smallest
suppliers , but also its poorest . Such agreements may be useful
in the administrative context of monitoring import flows. The S0.
Commission does not, however, corfo^er renewal of those agreements
essential if the partners concerned^a^not wish to renew them.
It, therefore recommends that the Count?^^leave the possibility of non-renewal open should the partner countries concerned not want
the agreements in question to be renewed, it being understood that this would not mean that the partner countries coraerned would no
longer be covered by the Community's generalised sjTytem of preferences
in respect of MFA textile products.
II. 5. Levels and growth rates for" 1983 global ceilings in respect of
MFA and preferential countries .
The global ceilings foreseen from 1983 appear in Annex 2. These
ceilings are set in such a way as to meet economic needs while
remaining compatible with the Community 's obligations . Separate
global ceilings are set for imports from mediterranean countries.
The sum of these two global ceilings represent the overall objective whose
achievement can only be assured if the Council adopts the Commission's proposal concerning textile policy in respect of preferential countries .
Wj^Mn the global ceilings for MFA countries (set by product category)
th^^mmission will have to have a margin of manoeuvre to take accoun&sf negociating requirements and in particular the case of
new suppliers . This margin will depend upon :
- the quantifies released in the quotas of dominant suppliers
through the-^^nsformation of some -parts of normal quotas into . OPT quotas ( deviation being mads : of the quantities now imported
- the quantities covered by under utilised quotas where such quotas were eliminated or reduced with the agreement of the partner country concerned.^Jv
The global ceilings are supplemented by t&rf-eserve for negociating purposes. In order to respect its quantitative objectives and'to
make the necessary changes in the supplier countries' export possib­ ilities the Community will have at its disposal the^pieans described
The annual growth which will apply to the global cei lings from 1983 and
during the life of MFA III will take account of the estimated growth in consumption and of the aim of ensuring that the trand of imports of
very sensitive products from low cost countries is compatible with frfte market situation in the Community and is not liable to upset that sitirejtoon.
The growth element will be allocated among the Member States in
accordance w1]th the present burden-sharing formula but may be
adjusted on an ad hoc basis in order to take account of specific
situations, such as the need to restore the balance between the import situations of the different Member States.
The proposed figures for the global ceilings are contained in Annex II.
The bilateral agreements concluded under MFA II are administered under Council Regulation (EEC) No 3059/78 of 21 December 1978 on common rules for imports of certain textile products originating in third countries. The Commission proposes that the basic provisions of this regulation be
Checking and administering imports effected under the proposed
The following formula is proposed:
maintained, subject to certain modifications to take account in particular of the problem arising with transfers between Member States' shares
w^fAetain the Community limits.
(b) Tr^pfers between the Member States' shares
The major problem which has arisen since 1977 concerns third countries' requests for transfers between the quotas allotted to the different regions
of the Community^^ihi le certain procedural problems have been solved the substantive problem^^as acute as ever. The supplier countries continue to criticize strongly attitude of the Community, which cannot accept
greater flexibility in the administration of the limits agreed at Community level . The Commission considers , as it stated in its
communication on renewal of the (C0M(81) 129 final-Annex VII), that
some degree of automatic flexibilit^^nth regard to transers between the national shares must be contemplated 'ffocrder to facilitate the
negotiations and pave the way for progres^^owards integration of the . Community market .
At the request of a partner country, to be presented aftvfyj june of each year, transfers of up to 10% of the amount of the share to^ich the
transfer is requested may be made between national shares within a
Community quota. This procedure is automatic only if the export cer^tificates
issued by the supplier country show that the quota for the Community been less that (80%) used by that country at the time when it presents
its requests. This formula does not exclude the possibility of other transfers being accepted on a case-by-case basis by the Community.
Arrangements for outward processing traffic ( OPT)
One of the objectives of the bilateral agreements will be to base textile trade as far as possible on special cooperation links between Community industries and those in the supplier countries. OPT is one aspect of this industrial cooperation and should enable the Community industry to obtain a substantial advantage from its trade with these countries.
The bilateral agreements must therefore be aimed at encouraging OPT operations while at the same time channelling the quantities involved.
To that end, the arrangements applicable to OPT operations will be
^j^ematically distinguished from those applicable to ordinary imports. In o^gpr to achieve this, it is vital that the draft OPT rules currently being e^Qfmined by the Council bodies be adopted as soon as possible.
A separate global ceiling will be laid down in respect of outward
processing opera^J^is for each product of which imports are subject to a global ceiling .
This OPT global ceiling :
- will be set taking account of:
2° previous OPT trade in respe^k,of countries with which OPT is
not at present accounted for sSg^rately in the quotas,
items 1° and 2° will forthwith be de^pctedfronr the reference bases
3° a reserve for all other suppliers which will not be more than 10%
of all the normal quotas for a given produ^s^for those suppliers.
In addition, it will be necessary in due course to take a^punt of the
quantities of OPT imports which are negociated with dominan^supplier countries in place of part of their quotas for normal imports, with an appropriate reduction in the global ceilings for normal imports. .
//Í - be allocated among the Member States in the light of what the
industry in each Member State needs and can cope with, these fac^)^ being adjusted in some cases by reference to other factors
(established trading rights), without excluding the possibility ι
of having to adjust that allocation in the future to take account of new requirements trhich may arise in certain Member States;
- be increased on the basis of a growth rate which is generally more favourable than that of the global ceiling earmarked for ordinary imports, account being taken of the trend of Community production .
III . Content of the bilateral agreements
- For products already subject to limits in 1982 under the existing
bilateral agreements the Commission proposed that renewal of the
limits be negotiated by country and category on the basis of the
limits agreed for 1982. The present growth percentages will have to
be adjusted to take account of the various supplier countries' development levels and their respective shares of the Community market.
7ra»lition of existing quotas may be considered where those quotas are aro%4»y underutilized.
If it proves necessary a reduction of the access levels opened in 1982
may be considered, provided that compensation can be proposed in other
categories in offer to secure the agreement of the partner countries
concerned .
The access levels of supplier countries which occupy a dominant position on the Community market (either in general or for certain products) may not be maintained^iftvless part of the existing ordinary
quotas is converted into OPT quotaSfc^
- As for the Community and regional limits introduced under existing agreements through the basket extractor procedure the Commission proposes
that as a general rule renewal of these limits ip^the new agreements should be sought . It would, however, be desirableyj^ examine the
regional limits case by case in order to decide wheth^^o abandon them or consider converting them into Community limits, (s^rticularly
where for a given category and supplier country four or more regions of the Community are covered by limits.
- For categories which are not subject to limits in the existing agreemx^s, the Commission proposes that new Community limits may be negotiated if ^
need be where for a given category imports originating in an exporting
country exce'ed for Group I 1%, for Group II 4% and for Group III 6% of extra-EEC imports .
Flexibility arrangements
Under all the existing agreements based on the MFA the supplier countries may increase the actual quota amount in any current year by 5% by means of carryover from the preceding year's quota
ar|d by 5% by means of carryforward from the following year's quota .. In order to use this facility , the only requirement is
notification. Most of the agreements also permit 5% transfers between categories but limit transfers within Group I and prohibit
^^ransfers to that group from other groups. The agreements with countries limit cumulation of these various possibilities to
a f^feire 15% below their mathematical sum.
As indicated in Section III. 5(f) below the Commission feels that,
in order to r^^ice the likelihood of sudden inflow of goods, it
is necessary to ^jpulate that, in the case of certain dominant supplier countries 4^ highly sensitive products and where cumulation of the flexibility possibilities is already restricted;
the following reductions in the amounts permitted at present must be sought by the Community : yb.
- for Group I products, cumulation {^ited to 10% (instead of 11%
- for products in the other groups , 11% cumulation ( instead of
It also proposes that the present limits for trans^^ between categories within Group I and to that group be maintai^jJ.
- The usefulness of the basket extractor system has been demonstrated by the way in which it operates under the present bilateral agreements . Certain criticisms may, however , be levelled at this
system and the Council directives of 13 July provide for the possibility of improving the system (point 13 of the negotiating
- This system has been criticized from three angles:
Ttl^jjComrnunity industry and union representatives have complained that
the ^^,et extractor mechanism is unwieldy, leading to belated intervention, long after the basket extractor threshold has been
exceeded. It is claimed that the restraint achieved has little in
common with the initial basket extractor threshold.
The exporting countrfys. claim that the basket extractor thresholds are unrealistically low *
They also consider that the request for exports to be suspended when the request for consultations is^i&ceived disrupts trade.
- Higher basket extractor thresholds and <^pechani sm permitting levels of restraint closer to the new basket extractor thresholds could
provide an answer to the first two criticisms. In response to the
third criticism, a solution enabling the exportinc^countries to continue
their exports to some extent after receipt of a recf&j^t for consultation should be sought.
The proposed amendments to the arrangements for the basket extractor mechanism ( see Annex VI ) are intended to meet these criticisms while
guaranteeing a closer relationship with past trade, thus facilitati^ acceptance of the system under the MFA. %
 Double-checking and exchange of statistical information
The importation of any quota-bound textile product is subject to an import licence being issued upon production of an export licence1 .
This .double-checking system operates satisfactorily and must be retained Certain improvements should,, however, be made, particularly with
regard to licences and certificates ( see Annex VII ).
In order to prevent fraud and reveal any deflection of trade, the exporting countries are also required to supply statistics
periodically on exports to destinations other than vf.e Community. The^^ervals and deadlines for transmitting statistics are not
adherec^j^by certain exporting countries or by the Community. The relevant provisions must be realistically reviewed, including those
pertaining to statistical data on handilgom and folklore products .
In the case of the wtoprt procedures, it should be ensured, inter alia, that the deadlinlej|Xfor granting the import documents are respected and that the nature of the imported products is effectively verified in order to avoid errors or possible cases of fraud involving their classification by category . %
As is already the case for the statis5s^g, the Community should
undertake to transmit to third countries amendments to the CCT or NIMEXE and any decisions concerning classification of products covered by the agreement concerned that have been taken under the procedures in force in the Community following the eptry into force
of the agreements. Tfo ^5
1 Subject to the special OPT arrangements.
Outward processing traffic COPT)
The OPT arrangements must be the subject of a protocol annexed to the agreements specifying:
- the conditions for application of the system which will be
, those provided for in the Community rules;
Kpthe machinery for administering the system, which will be
based on the following four principles:
- appli^^ion of the prior authorization system as provided
for in th^aroposed Community rules, in close consultation
with suppli^jj^pountries, in the event of underuti lization ' -after a certain period of the year;
- the introduction of specific quotas, for which the accounting is to be done when pri^r authorization is given. These
quotas should equal on a^age 10% of the quota for ordinary imports, although they may^jwjy according to the total
volume of imports of the prodef^ in question from the country concerned ;
Special arrangements (a) OPT and IPT
- in the absence of a specific OPT quota, application of a liberalized system subject to a threshold (5% of the quota for ordinary imports), beyond which the Community reserves
the right to fix a quota following consultation with the
- the more favourable application of the flexibility and
growth rates than for ordinary imports .
^V(ii) Inward processing traffic (IPT)
& - the bilateral agreements will apply the principle of non-
setting-off of the products declared under IPT.
- they will specify that for such products to be released
later^pr free circulation the imported goods must be
- it must be specified that the reimportation into the
Community of products^^eviously. exported therefrom after
undergoing processing un^&B.the IPT arrangements which ''/n
confers Community originatii^jj^tatus upon them will be contingent upon the goods' work^l in the Community at the •
time of the IPT operation being duly released for free
circulation and subject to any setting-off requirement.
For this purpose, any reimportation int<$^he Community
of products originating therein may be mad^J^bject to
appropriate checks to ascertain that this pro^^jon has been respected. The principle on non-setting-off under
IPT arrangements will not apply if equivalent compensation
is applied. A%%%
set off ^teinst the quotas.
During the course of the operation of the bilateral agreements
negociated under MFA II, a large number of cases of fraudulent
imports have been discovered. These cases mainly concerned clothing
imported with a falsely declared origin and falsified documentation
with the object of circumventing the quantitative limits established
for such products under the bilateral agreements. While a certain
number of practical steps have been taken by the Commission in
conjunction with Member States to eliminate such practices,
^jfceements should be improved in the future, in particular by ^^eements should be improved in the future, in particular by
sec^Jping the active cooperation of the partner country by getting it to accept full responsibility for correct administration of the agreement and assist the Community in its investigations into cases
of suspected ^j^jud. Consequently, the new bilateral agreements should include following points .
Ci ) The principle that the entire quantity ( 100%) of goods fraud­ ulently imported should be deducted from the quota of the true country of origin. jb* '
(ii) Extension of the present prf^sions on administrative cooperation
and origin certificate verificct^pn in order to set up a system for exchanging information on frat^?and trade and production .
investigations where that proves necessary,- a\nd verification of products in transit in the partner count4&>
(iii) The possibility of negotiating other measures tha4/^ve become necessary having regard to the circumstances and the partner
country in question (registration of exporters, double-checking procedure for surveillance of certain products, etc.) />>%
In the case of textile and clothing goods imported on the basis
of fraudulent descriptions or classification, the principle of full
accounting against the quota corresponding to the correct classification ι
should also apply.
Special arrangements will provide that imports of counterfeit goods will be the subject of consultations.
experience has shown that the relevant provisions of the bilateral ^^experience has shown that the relevant provisions of the bilateral
Handloom and folklore products
The Council has directed the Commission to maintain the possibility for the Community to conclude satisfactory arrangements concerning handloom and folklore products. The existing bilateral agreements lay down certification procedures and provide in accordance with Article 12 of the MFA that goods certified under those agreed
procedures shall not be deducted from quotas for the products concerned. Additional arrangements exist with certain supplier countries. The Commission does not recommend that the Community seek to negotiate
anv basic changes in the present system.
The precisions of Protocol B to the present bilateral agreements must be maintained and strengthened by providing for obligatory consult­ ations within a month in cases where the exporting countries and
the Community differ as to the nature of the products.
With regard to the pos^^jle need to draw a distinction between handloom/ handicraft products and products included on t he " folklore "
lists the corresponding certificates should bear a special mark ( e.g. be stamped) in the case of the latter products .
The Council asked the Commission in the MFA negotiating directives to preserve the possibility for the Community to
negotiate satisfactory price clauses in its bilater^^agreements. The TSB has taken the view that they are outside the of the
MFA. The Commission considers that price clauses have
useful purpose in its agreements with state trading countries and also in the special circumstances of the agreement with Peru. The Commission recommends the maintenance of the price
clauses in those agreements but does not consider that their inclusion in other agreements would serve any useful purpose.
Also, where a price clause is included in an agreement, it should be applicable , irrespective of where the goods are invoiced ,
to all products originating in and coming from that country.
e) Small non commercial consignments and samples
Special provisions will be included in the agreements in order to allow exemption for small non commercial consignments and samples from the provisions concerning documentation to be presented
(f) Red^jfe^ion/review clause (see Annex VIII)
In accordance with its undertaking at the 720th Council meeting
held on 13 Ju^ 1981 the Commission has examined all aspects of
a possible rec^^^on mechanism. The results of the examination are summarized intyrpex VIII . In view of these results and the arguments put forwarc^concerning the risks involved in increasing
imports at a time when consumption is falling very sharply, the Commission proposes the following approach:
- the limits to be agreed with trrejj^artner countries and the relevant growth rates must , as in past , take account of foreseeable consumption trends, part^ularly for Group I'
- in order to avoid overconcentration of imports7>j^thin these
limits because of cyclical fluctuations provision^jj^puld be . made for cumulation of the "flexibility" possibiliti^kto be
reduced in the case of the most sensitive products from dominant suppliers 1 . This seems particularly desirable for carryforward
from the following year's quota.
Lastly , the Commission coulcf envisage" proposing a recession / revision ,
. clause which would enable the agreed quantitative ..Limits and . flexibility arrangements to be revised after the agreements
have been applied for a certain time, in-o'der to takff account of consumption trends in the Community . This clause , which would make it possible to revise by common accord - upwards or downwards - the quantitative limits and flexibility percentages, could be invoked for the year of application of the agreement following the year of invocation of the clause.
III. 6. SpecTcil arrangements for first-time and small supplier countries :
Special arrangements must be sought for first-time and small supplier coun?&£s based on tiie concept of differentiation between
supplier' countri^s^dopted by the Community. The specific measures for the least develt^ed, first-time or small supplier countries could contain the following features :
- these countries could be eUj^ible for.higher-than-normal annual
growth rates for imports subje^jt^to restraint;
- the base levels which would be -t^t^p into account for establishing new limits following application o^frie "basket extractor"
mechanism should take account of these countries.'., most . recent export performances or be of a level equivalent to the limits
already agreed with other partner countries comparable situation (see Annex VI).
- greater latitude will be given to these countries 2<^regards utilization of the flexibility clauses, including transfers
between shares within the Community limits;
- the OPT system to be negotiated with these countries should take account of their industrial development requirements.
The industrial cooperation to be achieved with these countries through OPT should be particularly encouraged .
Generally speaking, agreements concluded with these countries should be applied flexibly, particularly with regard to non-Group I products.
(aY-^/ration of the agreements
Tf^p'Commission proposes that the agreements should in principle
last four years but that the expiry date of the agreements should nevertheless coincide with that of MFA III.
The Commission prg^pses that the present arrangements regarding territorial application be maintained.
The Commission considers that this Commun^j^: ion rounds off the
series of proposals - referred to in the introduction - already submitted by it to the Council concerning the textile sector. It feels that the Council now has all the information it needs to take
a decision on renewal of the MFA and the negotiation efothe\bilateral
textile agreements .
The Commission draws the Council's attention to the fact that ft is essential for measures in connection with the textile import arrangements
to be accompanied by appropriate action in the industrial policy
field if the Community's economic objectives in this sector are to be attained in full. r
The Council is requested to :
- approve the guidelines set out in this document for the future
arrangements to govern textile imports;
- authorize the Commission to open on this basis negotiations with the
supplier third countries concerned and, to that end, adopt the attached recommendation for a Council decision .
At the end of the Tokyo Round the European Community decided to establish a Link between effective application of the tariff concessions in the
textile and clothing sector and a mutually acceptable arrangement regarding international trade in textiles. This decision, taken in the light of
a similar position adopted by the United States, reads as follows:
^^maintenance of their tariff concessions in the textile seCfyr dependant on the continuation of satisfactory arrange­ ments for trade in mis sector. In these conditions, and taking into account the difficult situation of this sector,
turn its own concessions in the absence of a mutually accept­ able arrangement concerning the international trade in textiles ." ^
For practical reasons a d^ision on the common customs tariffs to be applied from 1 January 1982 must be taken in time for the tariffs to be ready for printing by 15 November 1981. The Council will therefore
have to settle this matter during t^ first -fortnight of November . The Commission intends to transmit a proposal on this matter
J&be Community has taken note that the United States make
the Community reserves to itself the right to review in its
The figurrfytn brackets represent the OPT quantities foreseen with the dominant suppliers/ which ij^C^be deducted in part from the ceilings for ordinary imports.
The figures
which will be<wUcted "*n part from the ceilings for ordinary imports.
represent the OPT quantities foreseen with the dominant suppliers^
The figur brackets represent the OPT quantities foreseen with the dominant suppliers, which wiK e deducted in part from the ceilings for ordinary imports-
The figure^g* brackets represent the OPT quantities foreseen with the dominant suppliers, which wiA^&vfce deducted in part from the ceilings for ordinary imports.
The figures in b ackets represent the OPT quantities foreseen with the- dominant suppliers- which will be ciS acted in part from the ceilings for ordinary imports.
The figures^tJf brackets represent the OPT quantities foreseen with the dominant suppliers,
in nart 'frnm + hp rfli I innc fnr nrHinary -i mnnrt e
which wiWtffcwe deducted in part-from the ceilings for ordinary imports.
The figureajxh brackets represent the CRT quantities foreseen with the dominant suppliers, which will\8e deducted in part from the ceilings for ordinary imports.
The Commission proposes that in the negotiation of the new bilateral textile agreements, the Community use the concept of differentiation basing it upon the following criteria :-
1 . Primary Criteria
(i) mark«£^hare of supplier country, overall and by type of product (texti lothing)
(ii)degree of development of supplier country, measured in terms of GNP per capita .
( i ) the nature of the supplier country 's exports , having regard in particular to the question of whether or not the supplier country is
a cotton producer (MFA Article 6 ££)) and.to the value-added content of the production;
(ii)the conditions of access for Community^hyjorts to the supplier country's market . ^ 5?
A. ratiles : Categories 3, 9, 20, 22 (incl. 22 A), 52 (incl. 32 A) 0„ Knitk/cor and clothing : Categories 5, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
0. Clothing : £xir,twi Group XV plus 10, H and 28^ less 73, 76, 78,
B. Knitwear and clothing : Cntecorios 4, 6, 7,
: Added tp GroupJ!
Added to Group IX
78 (Men's other woven do 81 (Wonen9!
othf*r woven clothing), 03 (OtflJ^f knitted Clothing ).
R"-*oved from Group II s Categories 10 (Coated gloves), 11 (Uncoated
Instances where Categories could with advantage be merged ore listed below.
' 16 and 75 ... Men's suits
10 and 11 V> A end 15 A 14 D and 15 0
Knitted gloves Coated coats f.'on-conted coats
18/30 A/30 B 19 and 89 and 25 and 74
Woven undergarments other than shirts Handkerchiefs
Men's and women's knitted nightik^r Women's suits
68/ 7v^5P 7?. and
Babies'i. clothing
Supplier countries with which the Commission recommends that bilateral agreements be negotiated.
Phi lippines Poland Romania Singapore South Korea Sri Lanka
- It should be noted that Bulgaria and China are not MFA members
The agreement with China expires on 31/12/83.
.The EC/Yougoslavia cooperation agreement signed on 2 April 19%an Belgrade
establishes a commercial and preferential regime for all texti le products. However Art . 17 of the Agreement provides in its first paragraph that : ^This agreement shall not affect the provisions of the Agreement concerning ^trade in textiles between Yugoslavia and the Community concluded in the^
i ramework of the Arrangement regarding International Trade in Texti lesfe^
The second paragraph of this Article provides that : fa
^No later than six months before the expiry of the above mentioned Agreement^
^the Contracting Parties shall determine the arrangements to be applied to textile products subsequently."
 The "basket extractor" system
The Commission proposes that the system of introducing a quantitative limit, as provided for in the present bilateral agreements (the "basket
extractor " system ), be maintained . It is , however , proposed that the
Although ^J^texts in the existing bilateral agreements enable the Community to fix provisional limits, such a practice has so far been
the exception to the rule. The Commission proposes that a clause in
the agreements be n<^tiated with the supplier countries to the effect that as a general rulc&tfien a request for consultation is made with a
view to introducing a qualitative limit the Community will fix a provisional limit for the n^xt three months not lower than the pro rata
figure for the supplier country's exports during the 12 months of the
mechanism be amended as follows :
(a) fSrxina of provisional limits
preceding calendar year or less than^a quarter of the basket extractor threshold in those cases where there tffpe no significant imports during
^^ertheless still be able to call for exports to be suspended but would use facility only in exceptional
the preceding year. The Community wi11
(b) Fixing of a'definitive limi t p.
The Commission proposes that the provision considered undei^a) should also stipulate that, should the consultations abort or fail ^(Jsproduce
results within the three-month period, the Community will be entitled to introduce a quantitative limit on an annual basis not lower than the
basket extractor threshold nor less than 106% of imports during the 12^^ months of the preceding calendar year. If necessary, such a limit would'
be revised upwards in the light of the trend of the Community's total imports of the product in auestion .
1 The special provisions laid down in the agreement with China will be maintained .
In view of the recommendation that the mechanism be strengthened,
the Commission proposes that the percentages applicable for triggering the mechanism be revised as follows-
Cipeprevçl^jpnttage of all extra-EEC imppoorír£t&*
For state-trading countries these percentages also apply to tinen and ramie products.
( ) = rate at present applicable to rf&tf supplier countries. suf
The Commission proposes that in the negotiations for the new textile agreements the Community should,, in order to facilitate administration
of imports, endeavour to obt.iin the following irnj-Tav^mcnts to the present system of licences and certif i c^tns .
is system should provide for : %
i) a^code identifying the importing Member State, and
ii ) a serial number identifying the transaction . This system should
also be designed to take account of the fact that in some exporting dfyptries there are decentralized systems for issuing
Indication of categories in the export licences ( Protocol A)
Certain exporting countries so^imes enter a number of product categories in the same export li^^e.
The new agreements should stipulate thl^ban export Licence may not cover more than one category .
(c) Verification of the authenticity of export licert<&S (Protocol A) and of certificates for handicraft and folklore producflsfeProtocol B)
% Provisions regarding the verification of the authenticity of the
licences and certificates in question should be introduced in the new agreements .
These provisions would be similar to those already existing for the verification of origin certificates .
Amendment and cancelling of export licences by the supplier countries ; procedures and consequences
The communication of these amendments and cancel latiofe,should be systematic and more rigorous than at present . It is al^/j?roposed that the new agreements explicitly stipulate that, after certain
export licences have been revoked by the exporting countries, the
Member States in question may cancel the corresponding import . authorization. Furthermore, if the exporting countries fail to noti$^ revocation until after the textile products referred to in the export ■ licence have been imported the quantities of the products in question
will be set off against the quantitative limit for the category and quota year referred to in each cancelled exoort licence.
(d) Additional information to be entered in the export Licences and corti f i cato s
It is proposed that the exporting countries should indicate on the documents in question whether they are the originals, copies, etc.
(e) Validity of the export licences
acknowledging that third countries should not be asked to
indi^S^an expiry date in the export licences the Commission nevertheless feels that the new agreements should contain provisions
for dealing with certain problems encountered here by the Member States.
It is therefore p^j^osed that where no expiry date is given in an
export licence the M^j^er State concerned be required to issue an import authorization art^to import the textile products in question
upon presentation of valid documents (bill of lading, for instance) dated no later than the last day of the quota year stated in the
licence in question. In applyingj^fiis principle the Community should take account of delays in shipping^j^ds due to force majeure
. At its 720th meeting, held on 13 July 1931, the Council adopted
the directives for renegotiation of the fTFA- J- a stater^nt entered in the minutes of that moating the Commission undertook to examine all aspects of a possible recession mechanism. This annex summarizes the results of the Commission 's examination .
• AHfffients in favour of a recession mechanism %
– A recession mechanism would make it possible to take account of contraction of the market. If it proved effective, it would enable the Community to take, as soon as signs of difficulties
on a market app^^-for a given product already subject to restraint,
the necessary measf$^ in agreement with the partner countries to avoid, the additional rfeks which might be involved if the impact
of imports increased .
- A recession mechanism could als^pe invoked in the event of a reducti
in consumption in general and couP^^ake it possible to adjust import opportunities to the new situ^jte-i.
% The arguments aqainst a recession mechanism
- Experience shows that in a recession market force^ji^ead to a fall in imports although it is not always as large as th^fell in consumption. xy.
The negotiation of a recession mechanism with the partner countries
would probably mean that, in order to be accepted by the latter, jjt should be able to work both ways. Should the difficulties existin$/i%
on the Community market disappear for one or more products or should consumption of textile products and clothing increase, the partner countries would be able to ask the Community to imorove
access to take account of the change in the situation. Such a step would not , however ,, be in the interests of the Community industry , which itself wants to be able to reap the benefits of growing demand in a period of economic recovery,
■ It would be extremely difficult to operate such a clause, as it could come into effect properly when the effects one is seeking to avoid
^re already receding. Such a mechanism would therefore risk having ^^nticyclic effect. In any case, a consumption-linked mechanism
wou1?£^ertainly not provide any aid for industry if consumption were to pickup.
A number of other technical difficulties could arise in applying
^ order to be able to invoke this mechanism against
the partner countrl^^it would be necessary to establish that the difficulties encounter^ are primarily attributable to a drop in
consumption. It would be extremely difficult to be able to evaluate such a trend in good time on the basis of existing statistics.
this mechanism.^
Consumption figures are established by taking production statistics, adding those for imports and dedu&^g those for exports. While
import and export statistics should ^i^vailable within three months, production statistics are, however, gon^felly available only very 'late
and are not communicatioed to the Commission by the Member ' States
on a regular basis . Moreover , they are not established according to the MFA product categories .
The setting up of a system providing for periodic stati^cal information
on production would call for a substantial logistical effort by the Member States and the Community. The Commission acknowledges the
advantages which such information could afford and is prepared to j^tudy ways of implementing such a system. It must, however, admit that
such an information system would take a fairly long time to set up anc$j£> could not be operational by the time the bilateral textile agreements
come to be renegotiated .
- Such a mechanism would also run counter to the principle of guaranteed access to Community markets for third countries,, which has been one
of the main arguments used so far by the Community for getting its partner countries to agree to voluntary restraint agreements.
Solution advocated by the Commission
In the light of the above points the Commission proposes the approach ^pbed in Section III. 5(1) of this paper,
Recommendation for a Council decision authorizing the Commission to
negotiate the renewal of_hilateral agreements under the flrrangement regarding International Yrar'e in Textiles
The Counni
The Council of the European Communities
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,, and in particular Article 113 thereof-
Havin^jegard to the Recommendation from the Commission^,
Whereas negotiations are to open between the parties to the bilateral agreements regarding trade in textiles with a view to possible renewing
Uhereas the Community Has decided as follows :
participate in those negotiations^
The Commission is hereby authorized- to neg^^ate renewal of the bilateral agreements regarding trade in textiles .
The Commission shall conduct these negotiations on the ba^fcj,ofthe elements in
its Communication C0MC81) 556 final in consultation with thJ^rticle 113 Committee .
Done at Brussels For the Pr3sident
