In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
i tôles, laninées è froid
simplement obtenus ou parachevés à froid î
 Cateqcr -? 6 : Barres . a~- ir>ees a cKv_,j
vhlch Custaas foraalitlM far wpori t» the United State* tf Aaarlca are coveted.
c . This certificate iulf endorsed Sy th« Ckjstaas ofilci stem U baa M 7,*u«tb« IMHed Stain ef iisrlca at tit* tlat »f laportatle*.
B. Tfiis certificate *>d the #£ert iScatcs «r th« ««tract tharef t# which It refars aust b« prvducrf at tM Curias tffia at
íh° rrt u$s (nei^ht) of síwl products shown la hot ae 6 has beti attributed j j j totb«extractshe*iaboxa*4(·)
| to the export ÌItane« atea· Ú bea ao 3
à froid
Simplement obtenus ou parachevés à froid
obtenus ou parachevés à froid
which Custoat foraalltlaa for wport ta the Unitad Stataa af A*erica ara coapleted.
8. This certificate and tha export llctnca ar tha wtract thraf ta which It refers aust ba pradwed at tfca Castas afflca at
c . This certificate duly ffdarsad ty tha Custas afflca sham U ba« m 7,aurtba preducdl* tha caapatiifauUiarttlaa la tHa Ihlted Stataa af tevlca at tha tlaa af laportatla*
| to tha •{part 1lc«ic« Sta® i
of export 1leene· Na / 1sued la
•» andere Profile
UeiBblech andere
- ander»
vHth Lir.tuai forsjlHUt for wport ta the Unitad States *f Asariu arc? ci^-,
Irland , IT für
Brei t flans chprof i le H-Prof i le
■It Wirkung wot L_ιi· t !
llLl *t *4%z (*«I;M) of steal proixts thoun to box M 6 hit be** attributed I | | *t»• tUtt «tract tk.1*»*»* UIum4 (i)
I to tba •pari 1Icwi ttoa to be* ao 3 StMD <
r, iMt certificate and th« vpori llc*»ca ar tha extract thnref to *Mch \i rrtrrx au*t to prtdtcad at ti* C*ctaa» attic* at
which Circuit formal I tl*t for **$oc\ ta tha Doited Stataa of A*«rlcft art
< . IMs crtlllut^ dwi; ty tha Ctntoat offlea i#wmi U b»x m ?9»vttlb$ ^raducadl* 1MIt«d SUtt* af JUtrica at tfea tlaa af laportatlaiu
caopatwfauthorttlaa U tha
•f ex; ort llene· Ito / (sund la
Stshlblech und Banrfstahi^ warmrçewaljt ,
6» This certificate ard Ihs export IIct-cb cr the extract thar-af to vhlth It refers aust be preduced at tfea Cciians offlca at vMcA Cictcsj fcrcal Itles for te tht United State* of Aarlca are collated.
C* This cvtlffcjt ^ duly e^arttd ty the Cmtoaj office thorn U baa M 7,avtt'ba prtivcei \m tea ceapt'tert'auOurltla* la U>« Unltcj State* af Aaarlca at the tlae af laportatla*.
If- ret uss (wel;ht ) of steel prodxts ttom la bo* »• 6 has ben attributed LJ to tha wyart l!crc* J I totbaextractitaailabo*m4(')
Tari f f a USA
T -,r i - f a USA
8. This cartlflcatj and t>« e*?crt llcs-«« *? th* extract tLarof to vhlch It refers Bust a pr-sdiecs si &t Canoes <rri!<U at
which Custcai for*illtle* fop export to t;.<s United States sf taeriea art coasted.
(a bo* M6 his b?^i attributed j
to bat no 3
+ [<tract he / fs;uxi in
of koud
- ander
- ander
Is'.tfld ín
J? CuvUsj fcrsallilw fop wport to th^ Uiltd Statu af Aaerica aro cc*.U'..i»>
of koudgei.alst
2 ContlgR*»( full Mae and address) ■
6. This certificate and the export Jlcsxe er thv « tn»ct tharef to vhlch It refars aust be pradcad at toe Cestoas erff lc« at wh! c-h Custcas formalities for export te th » Oilted States af Aaerica are C£*/l «tad,
C» This certificate duly *<ler»d ty the Custsai effl.se +om It U< M 7,auit>b« pradtceil* toe caapetart'authorltlea la tV« United State* ef Aaarlca at the tlae af Upartitlw,
Wrrt uss (wel;^t ) af stt«l prcdxts thcw la box m 6 has ben attributed j P | tatb«extractthMlabox&•t(<]
j to the *gort 1 Ic^rca tt\»M (a box no 3
(*) Nederland Belnium
Duitsland Frankri jk Italië
Duitsland Frankri jk Italië
(1) Nederland X Belgium X
concerning the conclusion of an arrangement with the United States of America relating to steel
concerning the conclusion of an arrangement with the United States of America relating to steel
on the monitoring by the Community of exports of cer­ tain steel products to the United States of America
on the monitoring by the Community of exports of cer­ tain steel products to the United States of America
concernling/the restriction of exports of certain steel products to the United States of America
concerning the restriction of exports of certain steel
products to the United States of America (presented by the Commission to the Council)
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel COMBunity, and In partioular Artiolee 58 and 95t
Whereas the Community has adopted a series of common internal rules intended to help the steel industry to restruoture in sooially acceptable condition*, and in particular for oertain products a system of production quotas based on Article 58 of the ECSC Treaty, the tightenin^-up ef the rules relating to non-discriminatory practices and prices and their extension to include
certain dealers pursuant to Artioles 60, 63 and 95 of the ECSC Treaty and establishment of Community rules oa aid pursuant to Artiole 95$
Whereas
the United States has taken a series of measures relating to imports of steel products from tho Community; whereas those
mt-inureT aro liablo to affect the smooth functioning of the abovementioned cc.i::on rules; whcreu.3 the imposition of anti–dumping duties, countervailing duties and other measures relating to imports are such as to divert considerable quantities from their traditional American markets to other markets, including the Community market ; whereas this would have an adverse effect on the common rules and in particular the quota system, Mould disturb the balance achieved with difficulty in trade with third countries and would affect the smooth functioning of the other Community aeavuros taken to improve the situation
i* the Community steel industry;
Whereas th«s Commission therefore opened negotiations with the United
biate:. o? America following the Council Decision of 24 July
criminating on 6 August 1982 in the text of an arrangement whereby the petitions 3 the American industry wouM be withdrawn and the measures taken by the United States Administration would be terminated in return for the restriction
of Corjnunity exports, and the text of an exchange of letters which the parties u^rocd to recommend that their respective authorities approve;
vhcreao the Community should therefore conclude such an arrangement with ths United Statea:
Wherea3, moreover, in order to attain, in the context of the functioning
of the common market for steel, the objectives of the Treaty and in particular those set out in the second paragraph of Article 2 and in Article 3» and in particular in Article 3(f) in the light of the economio situation and of
the measures relating to Community exports to the United States market, it
would appear to be neoeasary for the Community to conclude and iapl«n«nt the aboveaentioned arrangement)
Whereas the Treaty, and in partioular Article 73 thereof, did not make provision for an integrated system of export restrictions and internal quotas such as that arising from the oonolusion of this arrangement by the Community!
whereas in any event Artiole 73» which relates only to the administration of licences, simply envisages the coordination of national measures, and this would appear to bo insuffloient to ensure the proper implementation of the
Having consulted the Consultative Committee and with the unanimous assent of the Council. _ _
1. ThearrangementbetweentheEuropeanCoalandSteelCommunityandthe United States of America relating to trade in certain steel products "ic be concluded in the form of an exchange of letters is hereby approved on behalf of the European Coal and Steel Community.
<?, Thetextsofthearrangementandoftheexchangeoflettersareannexed to t'ois Decision.
The Commission shall designate the member of the Commission empowered to carry out the exohange of letters for the purpose of blading the European Coal and Steel Conmunity*
For the Commission
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economio Community, ai.d in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the United States has taken a series of measures relating to imports of steel products from the Community; j.
Whereas the Commission opened negotiations with the United States of America following the Council Decision of 24 July 1982, culminating on 6 August 1982 in the text of an arrangement whereby the petitions of the American industry would be withdrawn and the measures taken by the United States Administration would be terminated in return for the restriction of Community exports, and the text of an exchange of letters which the parties agreed to recommend that their respective authorities approve;
Whereas the Commission Decision pursuant to the ECSC Treaty concerning the conclusion of the arrangement has rsoeived the assent of the Counoil in accordance with that Treaty;
Whereas the arrangement also relates to certain steel products oovered by the EEC Treaty which are also the subject of the abovementioned petitions and measures ;
 Whereas the arrangement will make it possible to safeguard the essential
export interests of the Community steel industry on the United States market, will constitute a definite improvement compared with the uncertain
situation arising from the various proceedings initiated by the American industry and should help to improve the strained commercial relations with the United States,
1* ThearrangementwiththeUnitedStatesofAmericarelatingtotradein certain steel products to be oonoluded in the form of an exchange of letters is hereby approved on behalf of the European Economio Community to the extent that this arrangement relates to products oovered by the EEC Treaty.
2. Thetextsofthearrangementandoftheexchangeoflettersareannexed to this Regulation*
The President of the Council is hereby authorised to designate the person empowered to carry out the exohange of letters, for the purpose of binding the European Eoonomio Community*
This Regulation shall enter into foroe on the third day following that of its publication in the Offioial Journal of the European Communities.
This Regulation shall be binding in lta entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Council The President
on the monitoring by the Comrrunity of exports of certain steel products to the United States of America
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community,
Having regard to Decision No /B2/^CSC of ....... 1982 establishing quotas for the export of ECSC steel products to the United States of America, and
in particular Article 5(6 ) thereof ;
1. The putting into force of the Arrangement particularly as regards the distribution of exports over time makes it necessary to provide for fixed periods during which licences may be issued ;
2. To allow for optimum utilisation of all the export possibilities provided for
in the Arrangement, the licensing system should be drawn up so as to monitor the development of exports as closely as possible ;
3. It is necessary to authorize the competent authorities of Member States to take the appropriate measures in cases of loss, theft or destruction of a licence or certificate.
1. For each of the categories of products originating in the Community, such categories being defined in Annex I, export licences provided for in Article 5 of Decision No /82(ECSC) shall be issued free of charge
by the competent authorities in the Member States, hereinafter referred
to as the "issuing authorities" subject to the conditions provided for
by the said Article 5 . Licences shall be made out on forms conforming to the specimen set out in Annex II and respecting the provisions in Annex IV.
For each export of the abovementioned products, the exporter must make
out a certificate on a form conforming to the specimen set out in Annex III and respecting the provisions in Annex IV.
2 . A licence shall be issued within 15 working days of the day of the receipt of the exporter's application.
A licence may be issued only until the end of the second month of each calendar quarter . The licence shall be valid for three months from the date of issue. However export licences shall only be valid for exports to be carried out during the initial period defined in Article 1 of Decision No. 82/ECSC or during the year of 1984 or 1985 to which it refers.
Nevertheless, where the Commission decides to apply Article 2(3) of Decision No ... ./. . :
 - in cases of anticipated use of licences, exports may be carried out during the months of December 1983 and December 1984 ; the endorsement "ANTICIPATED ISSUE" shall be stamped on the certificates correspondirxj
to these licences,
- in the case of carry over of licences, the period of validity of licences expiring on 31 December 1983 and 31 December 1984, may be prolonged by two months by the authority which issued them,
- where supplementary allocations are made in cases of shortages, licences valid for a period of 6 months may be issued ; the endorsement "SPECIAL
ISSUE" shall be stamped on the certificates corresponding to these licences .
At the request of the titular holder of the export licence and upon production of the licence, the competent authorities of Member States may issue one or several extracts from the export licence. These extracts shall be made out
on forms conforming to the specimen set out at Annex II and respecting the provisions of Annex IV. Extracts may not be used as the basis for issuing further extracts .
At the time the extracts are issued, the quantities of products covered by the said extracts shall be deducted from the quantities indicated on the licence from which it has been issued .
Extracts shall have the same legal effects as the export licences from which they have been issued and to which they refer.
1. Export licences may be transferred in whole or in part by their titular holder (hereafter referred to as transferer ) . to other steel undertakings
or distribution undertakings (hereafter referred to as transferees) subject to the conrlitions laid down in Article 5(3 ) of decision . . . ./82/ECSC.
2 . The authority which issued the licence must be informed of such transfer by both the transferer and transferee. That authority shall without delay certify the transfer on the export licence or on the extract and inform the Commission. Transfer shall take effect from the date of this certi­ fication .
3. In cases where only a part of an export licence is transferred, an extract from the export licence should be issued in respect of this part .
4. Where a licence has been transferred to a transferee in a Member State other than that which issued the licence, the authority which certified
the transfer shall without delay inform the competent authority of the Member State in which -the transferee is situated .
5 . A licence , once transferred may not be transferred back to the transferer .
Licences, extracts from licences and certificates issued by the authorities of a Member State as well declarations and certifications accompanied by the stamp of these authorities shall have the same legal value in each of
the other Member States as such documents issued by the authorities of
these Member States as well as declarations and certifications accompanied by the stamp of these authorities .
1. Fully used licences shall be returned at the latest on the 8th working day of their fully used to the competent authority in the Member State which issued them .
2 . Unused or partially used licences shall be returned at - the latest on the 8th working day of expiry of their period of validity to the authority in the Member State which issued them.
The original of the export licence and certificate must be presented
in support of the export declaration to the customs office in the Community in which formalities regarding exports of steel products to the United States of America are completed.
This office shall :
a) deduct the quantity to be exported from the original of the licence
b) stamp the original and copies of the certificate, return the c\: i -?inal to the titular holder of the licence or to his representative so tha1-, it may be presented to the Customs authorities of the United Spates of America on importation , keep their own copy and forward the ' odes
destined for the issuing authority of the export licence and the Commission .
Menber States may provide for the forwarding of copies to the Comrassion to take place through a central organisation appointed for this purpose.
The copies of the certificates should be forwarded to the Commission within three working days following the week in which the abovesnontioned customs office stamped them.
1. The licence application must include the following information :
- a description of the products, specifying the category and the Nimexe code in accordance with Annex I
- the quantity of products, in metric tons
- the exporter's name or trade name, address and telephone and telex numbers - the consignee's name or trade name and address
- scheduled date(s ) of export
- where apprppriate, an indication of whether the products are intended for temporary importation into the United States of America and re- export in the same state or without having been subject to substantial transformation.
2 . The exporter must declare that the goods are of Community origin and that the information on his licence application is accurate.
Inthecaseofloss, theftordestructionoftheoriginalofanexport licence or certificate, the competent authorities which issued or stamped the said documents may issue or stamp a duplicate .
Licences so issued and certificates so stamped should bear the endorsement "DUPLICATA" in red.
1. Within the first ten days of each month the Member States shall notify the Commission of :
(a) the tonnages in respect of which licences were issued during the preceding month ;
(b) the tonnages exported in the month preceding that referred to in paragraph (a) above.
2 . The notifications from the Member States shall include :
(a) a breakdown of the products by category in accordance with in Annex I and in respect of the information referred to in paragraph 1(b), more­ over by Nimexe code ;
(b) a breakdown by licence-holder ;
(c) an indication in tons for each product destined to be temporarily imported into the United States of America for reexport in the same state or without having been subject to substantial transformation there.
 3. Within the first fifteen days of each month the Member States shall inform the Commission of the tonnages in respect of which licences expired in the preceding month.
4. The Member States shall forward to the Commission without delay a copy of each licence and extract once it has been issued .
5 . At the same time as they submit the monthly notifications provided
for in paragraph 1, the Member States shall send the Commission all relevant information concerning infringements of Decision No /82/ECSC and of this Decision and any penalties imposed.
This Decision shall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply from 1 October 1982 .
This Decision shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels ,
For the Commission
and strip of
- More than 4.75 aa
- Not less than 3 4.75 aa
* Less than 3 aa
but not aore than
Iron or Steel Coils for Re-rolling
Less than 1.50 a in width intended for rerolling :
Other than for "electrical" sheets and plates of a thickness of :
- More than 4.75 ma
- Not less than 3 a« but not aore than 4.75 ma
Less than 3
pressed and not stamped to j non-rectangular shape ( except i
as provided in item 609.17), Other than alloy iron or stet j.
Less than 1.50 ■ in width, not intended for re-rolling of • thickness of :
Not coated or plated with aetal and not clad .
Plates in coils Sheets
Sheets, pickled but not cold-rolled .
Hot rolled strip less than 0.01 inch in thickness.
Hot rolled strip betwetn 0.01 and 0.05 inches In
Hot rolled strip over 0.05 inches in thickness .
1.50 a or aore in width, of a thickness of :
- More than 4.75 mm
- Not less than 3 mm but not aore than 4.75 mm
- Less than 3 ma.
iron and steel not'cut, not
Sheets and Plates of Iron or Steel, Hot Rolled or Cold Rolled :
Non Electrical Sheets and Plates, not further worked than hot rolled of a thickness of 2 mm or more :
Not less than 3 mm but not more than 4.75 mm :
- With raised or indented patterns - Other
- Sot less than 2 mm but not nore than 4.75 mm
Less than 2 mm :
- More than 1 mm but less than 2 mm
" Not less than 0.5 an but not more than 1 mm.
- Less than 0.5 m
Plates, pickled or cold roll* i
Sheets and Plates, of Iron or Steely Cold Rolled
Non-Electrical Sheets and Plates, not f further worked than cold rolled of a • thickness of more than 1 mm but less i
j than 3 m :
j - Not less than 2 »* but less than 3 «»
- Wore than 1 *n but less than 2 mm
" Not less than 0.5 mis but not nore than 1.0 m
- Less than 0.5 m
Sheets and plates, of iron or steel, hot rolled „ :
Other than "Electrical" sheets and plates .
Not further worked than hot-rolled, of a thickness of more than 4.75 ma
- with raised or indented patterns - Other
- Other (for example/ copper-plated, originally oxidised, lacquered, nickel plated, varnished, clad, parkerised, printed)
Plates (other than coils) (not coated or plated with
metal and not clad). Clad
Plates : valued not over
10 ct. per pound (coated or > plated with metal)
Plates : valued over 10 ct.
per pound (coated or plated with eetal)
Angles, shapes arid sections, of iron or steel, hot-rolled, forged, ex~ truded, cold-formed or cold-finished sheet-piling of iron or steel, whether or not drilled, punched or made from assembled elements :
Angles, shapes and sections not •
furtherworkedthanhot-rolledor { extruded . i
U, I, or H sections of a height of 80 mm or more
- H Sections (broad flanged beams)
U or I sections :
- other angles shapes and sections
Not further worked than cold-formed or cold-finished
- From coils for re-rolling, uni­ versal plates, hoop, strip, sheets or plates.
- Other.
Angles, Shapes and Sections Hot Rolled, or cold formed
and weighing over 0.29 pounds per linear foot.
Not drilled, not punched and not otherwise advanced.
Other than alloy ir^n or stee
Having a maximum cross sectional dimension of 3 inches or more.
Wide Flanae Shapes or Section! H Piles
Other
Other
" Hot Rolled Bars and Rods other than- concrete reinforcing bars
Other than alio/ steel. Not cold formed .
Not coated or pitted with aetal .
Flats Rounds Others .
( other than roncreta
Sheets and Plates
Clad or coated or otherwise surface treated :
- E lectrolyt i cal ly zinc coated (electro-galvanised)
Otherwise iinc coated (includina hot dipped galvanised) :
- Corrugated - Other
- of a thickness of less than
0,50 mm, e'.ectrolytically coated with chrome oxides or with chromeandchromeoxides the thickness of the coating not exceeding 0,05 micrometre whether or not varnished, lacquered and/ or printed.
- Copper plated
- Nickel-plated or chrome-plated
- lacquered, varnished, painted or plastic coated.
Sheets coated or plated with
metal.Other than Alloy Iron or Steel
Sheets valued at not over 10 ct. per pound.
Sheets valued at over 10 ct. per pound.
Tinplate and Tin coated sheet'
Imported for use in .¡:ηυ· iS facture of maple sap evaporators .
I Other valued not over 10 ct. »
Other valued over 10 ct. per pound.
Sheets and Plates, clad coated or otherwise surface treated.
Tinned :
Rails, other than current conduc-
ting with parts of non-ferrous •étal.
- with · weight per ■ of not less than 20 kg
- with « weight per ■ of less than 20 kg
of steel *
Other than alloy steel *
- Standard tee rails over 60 pounds per yard
- Other
Railway and tramway track construc­ tion material of iron or steel, the following : rails, check-rails, switch blades, crossings (or frogs!·i crossing pieces, point rods, rack raits, sleepers, fish-plates, chair'■ , chair wedges, sole plates (base
plates), rail clips, bedplates, tie and other material specialised for joining or fixing rails:
Rails, joint bars, and ti#
plates, all the fore-going
Hot rolled hoop and strip
Sheets and plates other than "ELECTRICAL".
Stateless or Heat resisting not Rollel :
- of a thickness of not less than 3 mm but not more than 4.75 mm
- of a thickness of less than 3 na
Not Coated or plated with metal and not clad
Stainless Steel
(not pickled and not cold-
Stainless Steel Sheets (pickled but not cold rolled)
Other Stainless Steel Sheets:
Stainless Steel not over 0.01 inch in thickness
Other
Stainlesswsteel over 0.01 inch but^over 0.05 inch In
Stainless steel over 0.05
inch in thickn«ss S
. (ic*v ic STilSLESS STEEL, SHEET AND STRIP
Cold Rolled : less than 3 na.
Not coated or plated witH metal and not clad .
Sheets and Plates
Other than "Electrical".
Not further worked than Hot rolled .
Of a thickness of more than 4.75 mm 607.76-05
Plates of stainless steel - not pickled and not cold rol led
Plates of stainless steel pickled or cold rolled.
with effect fr i liil
Thit deciamt «-J a certificat· far the «φart tf ft·«] pr·- dxts lust be proJxed at the Cmtoat efflce at which Cinto·· farmil Iti w ftr «Φort ta the United State« af JUrelea ara ceapleted .
and date
8. This certificate and the wport Hcsko er the extract theref to which It refer* aust be pradtted at tiN Cartas cfflca at
which Cnsteas faraalltlea for wport ta the United Statea af A*erica art completed.
c. Th!s ca-tlflcat* duly aiderad ty the Custeas efflca la ba* aa T.austiba tfca ca^etafautkarltlaa la tfca IMItad Statn af Aarlca at the tlae af lapertatlou
0)The acprtsrlate h ta ba Indlcated ilka thl »
1. Licences and extracts thereof forms shall be made up in sets containing at least one original, a copy for the issuing authority and a copy for the Commission. Certificate forms shall be made up in sets containing at least one original, a copy for the customs, a copy for the authority issuing the export licence or the extract thereof and a copy for the Commission .
2. Forms referred to in point 1 shall be printed on white paper dressed for writing and weighing at least 40 grams per squar* metre. Their size shall be 210 x 297 mm.
3. The Member States shall be responsible for having the forms referred to in point 1 printed. These may also be printed by
printers appointed by the Member State in which they are established. In the latter case, reference to the appointment by the Member State must appear on each form. Each form shall bear an indication of the printer's name and adress or a mark enabling the printer to be identified and an individual
The number shall be preceded by the following letters according to the country in which the forms are utilized : BE for
Belgium , DK for Denmark , DE for the Federal Republic of Germany, FR for France, GR for Greece, IR for Ireland, IT for Italy, LU for Luxembourg, NL for the Netherlands and GB for
the United Kingdom .
4. Licences and extracts thereof forms shall be printed in one of the official languages of the Community, as specified by the
- ompetent authorities of the issuing Member State .
Certificates shall be printed in English .
1. Licences, extracts thereof and certificates forms shall be completed in typescript.
2. The stamps of issuing agencies and attributing or vising authorities shall be applied by means of a metal stamp, preferably made of steel.
on the monitoring by the Corrtnunity of exports of certain steel products to the United States of America
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Commission
Having regard to regulation (EEC) nr. ...... 1982-establishing quotas for the export of ECSC steel products to the United States of America, and
ir particular Article 5(6) thereof ;
1. 'ftie putting into force of the Arrangement particularly as regards the distribution <f oxjorts over time makes it necessary to provide for fixed periods during which licences may be issued ;
2 . To allow for optimum utilisation of all the export possibilities provided for in the Arrangement, the liceasing system should be drawn up so as to monitor the
development, of exports as closely as possible ;
3. It is necessary to authorize the competent authorities of Member States to take the appropriate measures in cases of loss, theft or destruction of a licence or certificate,
1. For each of the categories of products originating in the Community, such categories tying defined in Annex I, export licences provided for in Article 5 of Regulation (CEC) nr. shall be issued free of charge
by the competent authorities in the Member States, hereinafter referred
to as the "issuing authorities" subject to the conditions provided for
fcy the said Article 5 . Licences shall be made out on forms conforming to the specimen set out in Annex II and respecting the provisions in Annex IV.
For each export of the abovementioned products, the exporter must make
out a certificate on a form conforming to the specimen set out in Annex III and respecting the provisions in Annex IV.
2 . A licence shall be iasued within 15 working days of the day of the receipt of the exporter's application.
A licence may be insued only until the end of the second month of each calendar quarter . The licence shall be valid for three months from the date of issue. However export licences shall only be valid for exvorts to be carried out during the initial period defined in Article 1 of regulation (EEC) nr. or during the year of 1984 or 1985 to which it refers.
Nevertheless, where the Corrmission decides to apply Article 2(3) of regulation (EEC) nr /82:
 - in ra.-<?s or" anticipated use of licences, exports may be carried out during the wvit-hs of December 1983 and December 1984 ; the endorsement "ANTICIPATED ISSUE" shall be stamped on the certificates corresponding
co these licences,
- in the case of carry over of licences, the period of validity of licences expiring on 31 December 1983 and 31 December 1984, may be prolonged by two months by the authority which issued them,
- where supplementary allocations are made in cases of shortages, licences valid for a period of 6 months may be issued ; the endorsement "SPECIAL
ISSUE" shall be stamped on the certificates corresponding to these licences .
At the request of the titular holder of the export licence and upon production of the licence, the competent authorities of Member States may issue one or several extracts from the export licence. These extracts shall be marie out
on forms conforming to the specimen set out at Annex II and respecting the provisions of Annex IV. Extracts may not be used ts the basis for issuing
further extracts .
At the time the extracts are issued, the quantities of products covered by the said extracts shall be deducted from the quantities indicated on the licence from which it has been issued .
Extracts ahajl have the same legal effects as the export licences from which they have been issued and to which they refer.
1. Export licences may be transferred in whole or in part by their titular holder (hereafter referred to as transferer), to other steel undertakings
or distribution undertakings (hereafter referred to as transferees) subject to the oorvlitions laid down in Article 5(3) ofReglementation (EEC) nr.
2 . The authority which issued the licence must be informed of such transfer fcy both the transferer and transferee. That authority shall without delay certify the transfer on the export licence or on the extract and inform the Commission. Transfer shall take effect from the date of this certi­ fication .
3. In cases where only a part of an export licence is transferred, an extract from the export licence should be issued in respect of this part .
4. Whore a licence has been transferred to a transferee in a Mrmbrr State oth^r than that which issued the licence, the authority which certified
the transfer shall without delay inform the competent authority of the Member State in which 'the transferee la situated .
5. A licence, once transferred may not be transferred back to the transferer.
Licences, extracts from licences ani certificates issued by the authorities of a Member State £s well declarations and certifications accompanied by
the stamp of these authorities shall have the same legal value in,each of the other Monlxir States as such documents issued by the authorities of these Member States as well as declarations and certifications Accompanied by the stamp of these authorities .
1. Fully used licences shall be returned at the latest on the 8th »*>rk±ng day of their fully used to the competent authority in the Member State which issued them .
2. Unused or partially used licences shall be returned at the latest on the 8th working day of expiry of their period of validity to the authority in the Member State which issued then.
The original of the export licence and certificate must be presented
in support of the export declaration to the customs office in the Conrrunity in which formalities regarding exports of steel products to the United States of America are completed.
This office shall :
a) deduct the quantity to be exported from the original of the licence
 b) stamp the original and copies of the certificate, return the original to the titular holder of the licence or to his representative so that it may be presented to the Customs authorities of the United States of Anerica on importation, keep their own copy and forward the copies
destined for the issuing authority of the export licence and the Oonmission .
Member States may provide for the forwarding of oopies to the Commission to take place through a central organisation appointed for this purpose.
The copies of the certificates should be forwarded to the Commission within three working days following the week In which the abovenentioned customs office stamped them.
1. "Die licence application must include the following information :
- a description of the products, specifying the category and the Nimexe code in accordance with Annex I
- the quantity of products, in metric tons
- the exporter's name or trade narre, address and telephone and telex numbers - the consignee's name or trade name and address
- scheduled date(s ) of export
_ where apprppriate, an indication of whether the products are intended for temporary importation into the United States of America and re- export in the same state or without having been subject to substantial transformation.
2. The exporter must declare that the goods are of Community origin and that the information on his licence application is accurate.
In the case of loss, fcheft o destruction of the original of an export licence or certificate, t';e c:-mpetent authorities which issued or stamped the said documents may issue or stamp a duplicate .
Licences so issued and certificates so stamped should bear the endorsement "DUPLICATA" in red.
1. Within the first ten days of each month the Member States shall notify the Commission of :
(a) the tonn.-Kjes in respect of which licences were issued during the preceding month ;
(b) the tonnages exported in the month preceding that referred to in paragraph (a) above.
2. The notifications from the Member States shall include :
(a) a breakdown of the products by category in accordance with in Annex I and in resf>oct of the information referred to in paragraph 1(b), more­ over by Nimexe code ;
(b) a breakdown by licence-holder ;
(c) an indication in tons for each product destined to be temporarily imported into the United States of America for reexport in the same state or without having been subject to substantial transformation there
 3. Within the first fifteen days of each month the Member States shall inform the Commission of the tonnages in respect of which licences expired in the preceding month.
4. The Member States shall forward to the Commission without delay a copy of each licence and extract once it has been issued.
5. At the same time as they submit the monthly notifications provided for in parayraph 1, the Member States shall send the Commission all
relevant information concerning infringements of Regulation ifZ.O nr. and of this Decision and any penalties imposed. (
This regulationfehall enter into force on the third day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Xt shall apply from 1 October 1982 .
This regulat ionfchall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
For the Commission
Sheets and plates , of iron or hot rolled or cold rolled
Plates, pickled or co rol led
Non-electrical sheets and plates, not further worked than cold rolled , of
a thickness of 3 mm or more
Angles , shapes and sections : Not further worked than forged
Not further worked than cold-formed
otherwise
advanced .
Angles , shapes and
or steel , hot-rolled , forged , cold-formed or cold-finished ;
piling or iron or steel, whether or not
Angles , shapes and
hot-rolled , or cold-formed and weighing over 0.29 pounds
drilled , elements :
or made from
drilled , not punched and
From coils for re-rolling, universal plates , hoop , strip , sheets or plates
Other than from coils for re-rolling, universal plates, hoop, strip, sheets or plates
Other than alloy iron or steel .
Having a maximum cross sectional dimension of 3 inches or more .
Wide flange shapes or sections
H Piles Other Other
Clad or surface-worked (for example, polished, coated):
Not further worked than clad : Cold-formed or cold-finished
Other than not further worked than clad
of iron extruded , sheet-
Railway and tramway track construction material of iron or steel, the follow­
ing : rails , check-rails , switch blades , crossing ( or frogs ), crossing oieces , point rods, rack rails, sleepers, fish­ plates, chairs, chair,wedges, sole plates (base plates), rail clips, bedplates, ties and other material specialised for joining or fixing
Rails, joint bars, and tie plates, all the fore­ going of steel
Other than alloy steel :
- Standard tee rails over 60 pounds per yard
- Other
Rails current-conducting , with parts of non-ferrous metal .
 Stainless steel , TDC
and strip NIMEXE
Alloy steel hoop and strip, not further worked than cold-rolled :
Stainless or heat-resisting
Sheets and plates :
Other than "electrical"
Not further worked than cold-rolled , of a thickness of 3 mm or more:
Stainless or heat-resisting
Not coated or plated with metal and not clad
Stainless steel sheet ( not pickled and not cold- rolled )
Stainless steel sheets ( pickled but not cold rol led)
Other stainless steel sheets :
Stainless steel not over 0.01 inch in thickness
Stainless steel over 0.01 inch but over 0.05 inch in thickness
Stainless steel over 0.05 inch in thickness
 gttWOM A * CQWHPWtTT •1 [xpnierifwlloMt and attorns)
This docieeit and · certificat· for the eç«rt tf (teel pr* ducts tuet b· probxfd at the Custoas «ff le· at which Custo··
11 Cusio·s export dociaent(typ*,fti*bflr and date] 12
State, staso and slyvatir· ef attributing au^orlty
6. This certificate and the o*port licence er the eattnct therof to vhlch it refers oust bo produced at ttw Cartoai office at
vhlch Costoos frailties for export te the United States ef Aaerlca are couleted.
C« Thli certificate duly ndartai ty the Cwtoaj office tfw* la twe m 7, av«t)be produced ~to tfco Mpeterf 'author ! tloo la the thlted States of Aaorlca at the tlae ef iKortatlai*
9 htkt mi tta^ri • later and klad of p*cfcag«« •tDescriptleM of stee) product* aUJ"fJ
1. Licences and extracts thereof forms shall be made up in sets containing at least one original, a copy for the issuing authority and a copy for the Commission. Certificate forms shall be made up in sets containing at least one original, a copy for the customs, a copy for the authority issuing the export licence or the extract thereof and a copy for the Commission .
2. Forms referred to in point 1 shall be printed on white paper dressed for writing and weighing at least 40 grams per square metre. Their size shall be 210 x 297 mm.
3. The Member States shall be responsible for having the forms referred to in point 1 printed. These may also be printed by
printers appointed by the Member State in which they are established. In the latter case, reference to the appointment by the Member State must appear on each form. Each form shall bear an indication of the printer's name and adress or a mark enabling the printer to be identified and an individual
The number shall be preceded by the following letters according to the country in which the forms are utilized : BE for
Belgium , DK for Denmark , DE for the Federal Republic of Germany, FR for France, GR for Greece, IR for Ireland, IT for Italy, LU for Luxembourg, NL for the Netherlands and GB for
the United Kingdom.
4. Licences and extracts thereof forms shall be printed in one of the official languages of the Community, as specified by the competent authorities of the issuing Member State.
Certificates shall be printed in English .
1. Licences, extracts thereof and certificates forms shall be completed in typescript.
2. The stamps of issuing agencies and attributing or vising authorities shall be applied by means of a metal stamp, preferably made of steel.
Concerning the restriction of exports of certain steel products to the United States of America
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, and in particular Article 58, and 95 first and second paragraphs thereof;
Whereas :
1. The Community has concluded an arrangement with the United States of America under which certain ant1-dump1ng , countervailing duty 8nd other investlqat ions are to be terminated and the amount of exports to the U.S.A. of certain steel products originating in the Community are>to be limited to certain levels over a
ertaln period ("the Arrangement"}; the conclusion jof such an arrangement helps to ensure the success of the various other measures taken by the Community with regard to
the Community industry 1n the framework of the Community steel policy;
wh»*ri»its it is necessary, pursuant to this arrangement, to Introduce in the Community measures »v? restrict the amount of these steel products exported to the U.S.A. ;
2. Although the Treaty makes no exprtts provision for the Imposition by the Community of a limitation of exports of this nature, such a limitation 1s necessary for the attainment, 1n the functioning of the Common market in
steel and in conformity with Article 5 of the Treatyfof objectives of the Community set out in Articles 2, 3 and A; whereas in particular the tjkini of this decision will help to avoid fundamental disturbances in Mi»mt>«T States' economies: in addition the objectives set out in Article 3, and m particular in its paragraph Cf),seen in the light of the economic situ * if" and the US measures taken against Community exports, also necessitate the takinq of this decision ;
 3. Under present market conditions orderly trade relations with the
U.S.A. with respect to certain steel products can best be maintained, and a contribution made to the success of the various other measures of the Community steel poticy to restore the Community steel industry to a sound basis, by the introduction of restrictions on the amount of those products exported to the U.S. market ;
4. In accordance with the Arrangement, the export restrictions cover steel products originating in the Community; the origin of these products is
determined in accordance with applicable community legislation, that is to say Council Regulation (EEC) n° 802/68 of 27th June 1968 on the common definition of the concept of the origin of goods (1) as last amended by Regulation 1318/71 (2);
5. For practical and management reasons, the quantitative export limits agreed by the Community must be allocated between the Member States;
in order to do so, an allocation method must be established which
/ _7; thereafter the Member States
must share out the amounts allocated to them between undertakings in accordance with the objective criteria / _7;
6. A utilisation of the Community limits based on allocations between Member States made in this way would seem to be in accordance with the
Community nature of these limits,considering that in addition a Community reserve it to be established .
(1) O.J. n® L 148 of 28th June 1968, p. 1 (2) O.J. n° L 139 of 25th June 1971, p. 6
 7. A Community reserve will allow certain effects of the allocation method to be corrected and ensure a maximum use of the export possibilities;
8. As foreseen in the Arrangement, measures must be taken to avoid abnormal concentrations at certain times in the exports to the USA;
9. The Community steel policy aims in particular to allow the Community steel industry to adapt to the conditions of international competition; considering
on the one hand, the , links between the industry 's restructuring
efforts and the needs to which the Arrangement responds, and on the other hand that the Arrangement is limited to products originating in the Community
it is necessary to restrict the issue of export licences to steel producing undertakings only; in order to take account of the interests of distributive undertakings it must be possible for these licences to be transferred not only to production undertakings but also to distributive undertakings,
in particular where the production undertakings decide to sell their products to such distributive undertakings ;
10. It appears necessary, end for the moment sufficient, that the Member States ensure the respect of the various provisions of the regime by applying the various penalties provided for in their laws;
11. This decision does not prejudice any changes which may be made to the regime' which it establishes in cases where the application of the same leads to unforeseen difficulties.
After consultation of the Consultative Committee and with the unanimous assent of the Council
1. Community expert limits are established for the period
1st October 1982 to 31st December 1983 ("the Initial Period") and there­ after for the years 1984 and 1985 for exports effected after 1st October 1982 from the Community to, or destined for consumption in, the United States of America ("USA") of the steel products originating in the Community which are listed and described in Annex I (hereinafter called "the quantitative export limits").
For the purposes of hereof, USA shall comprise US Custom Territory and us foreign Trurie Zonrn as ricscHbrd 1n Annex II.
2. The origin of the products covered by this decision shall be determined 1n accordance with the rules 1n force 1n the Community.
Comrjnity export limits per product category si-,all be calculated by the Commission for the Initial Period and for the years 1984 *nd 1985 by application to the US Apparent Consumption within the meaning of
article 5 of the Arrangement of the following percentages:
Product categories Hot-rolled sheet and strip Cold-rolled sheet
6. Hot-rolled bars
7. Coated sheet
10. Stainless steel sheet and strip <ind stainless steel plate
2. The Community export Units calculated pursuant to paragraph 1 shall be adjusted by the Commission to take account of revisions of the said US Apparent Consumption,.
3. These, liir.ites may also be adjusted by the Commission, after consultation of the Steel Liaison Committee,
- for advance use or carry-over of licences,
- to enable transfers between product categories,
- for additional quotas in case of short-supply,
- to take account of possible aberrations from seasonal trade
patterns in exports effected between 1st August and 30th September 151,2 under the conditions foreseen in the Arrangement.
1. The Community quantitative export limits established and calculated persuant to Article 2. shall be allocated for the Initial Period and for 1984 and for 1985 by the Commissi6n in accordance with Annex III.
2. The Member States shall return to the Community reserve forseen 1n
Annex III within the first eight days of the third month of every quarter such portion of the amount of their allocation communicated to the Community prussuant to Article 5 (1)for which licences have not been delivered by them.
The Community reserve shall be allocated by the Commission, after consultation of the Steel Liaison Committee, to one or more Member States to the extent
to which an adjustment of the allocations are necessary to improve the utilization of the quantitative exports limites or to take account of difficulties in the administration of the system.
The Commission ntay establish the technical conditions upon which licences are to be issued by the Member States in respect of such additional allo­ cation or allocations .
1. Community exports described in Article 1 effected between 1st October 1982 and 31 December 1985 shall be subject to the production to the competent customs office in the Community of an export licence to be delivered by the relevant authorities of each Member States within the limits of the amounts allocated to it pursuant to Article 3 and, where relevant, Article and of an export certificate .
Member States shall fix the tonnages for which they anticipate that licence will be issued, 1n each quarter for each product category: They shall inform the Commission thereof in the first fifteen days of the relevant
quarter. In doing so, they shall make sure that the export licence issues for each quarter ensures an adequate spread of exports over the whole year, taking into account the seasonal variations in trade of the product category in question .
 However , Member States ahll not , without the prior authorisation of the
Commission, issue 1n any two consecutive quarters licences for amounts
which exceed 55 X of their allocation in the Initial Period or 65 X t
of their allocation In 1984 and 1985.
Member States may, subject to the second paragraph hereof, Issue further licences in the Initial Period, 1984 and 1985 respectively in respect of the unutilized part of licences issued which h^ve been returned to the authorities of such Member-State in the Initial Period, 1984 and 1985 respectively .
The licence shall be delivered to undertakings engaged 1n the production of steel within the Community and established in the issuing Member State in accordance with the following criteria :
 3. Transfers of export licences between undertakings or to distributive under­ takings may take place prvided that they concern the same product category
and after prior notification to the autorities of the Member States in
which the fransfers or undertaking is established. Such transfers may take place between undertakings established in different Member States.
4. Licences delivered in one Member State of the Community are valid throughout the Community .
5. Member States shall ensure that appropriate sanctions are applied in respect of all exports effected without production of the licence requires hereunder and in respect of any other breaches of the provisions relating to such licences. Member States shall keep the Comnission informed of all breaches of such measures and of all sanctions imposed in respect thereof, at intervals to be specified by the Commission.
6. The Commission mey lay down detailed rules for the implementation of this Article and specify the information to be provided to the Commission concerning the licences and exports .
1. Member States shall charge the amounts set out on the licences issued by them against their respective allocations made pursuant to Article 3 and,
where relevant, Article 4, Including all licences subsequently transferred to an undertaking in anouther Member State .
2. Member States shall kepp recourds of the exports of the products. The products sahll be deemed to be so exported as at the date of acceptance by the
customs authorities of the Member State of export from the Community of
the export declaration or of the document provided for in Article 18 of Council Directive no . 81 / 177/ EEC of 24 February 1981 ( 1 ) on the harmonization of procedures for the export of Community goods.
3. The extent to which a Member State has used up its allocation shall be deter­ mined on the basis of licences delivered 1n accordance with Article 5.
O.J. No L 83 of 30.3.1981, p. 40
1. Temporary exports to the U.S.A. of products which are to be re-exported from the USA in the same form or without having been subject to substantial, transformation sahll be charged against the allocation of the Member State whose authorities delivered the licence. Upon production to the authorities of such Member State proof of such re-exportation from the USA, then the allocation of that Member State for the period when such proof is presented shall be increased by the same amount.
2 . The Coiv.f.iissic.t may lay down detailed rules for the implementation of this Article .
This Decision shall *nter into force three days after its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. THe system of quantitative export limits shall apply from 1st October 1982.
This Decision shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Commission
Memoer of the Commission
Hot Rolled Carbon Steel Sheet and Strip
Cold Rolled Carbon Steel Sheot
Subject to further verification by experts on both sides.
Description of products
Hot Rolled Carbon Steol Plate
Coated Sheet
Sheet and Other Coated 8h««t)
Tinplatc (not including b lackpl ate )
NOTFj Subjecttofurtherverificationbyexpertsonbothsides
Hot Rolled Carbon Steel Bars
Stainless Steel Sheet
Stainless Steel Plate
NOTF.; Subject to further verification by experts oh both sides .
Hot-rolled carbon steel sheet and strip
Community reserve
Community reserve
/Insert /eight/ other products/
Cold-rolled carbon steel »heet
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113,
Whereas : I
1.TheCommunityhasconcludedanarrangementwiththeUnitedStatesofAfrica ^ under which certain anti-dumping, countervailing duty and other Investioation* are to be terminated and the arnount of exports to the U.S.A. of certain Jt*fI products originating in the Community are to be limited to certain levels over a
certain period ("t^e Arrangement"); the conclusion of such an srrangment helot to *rv,r* the success of the various other measures taken by the Community with regard to
the Community industry in the framework of the Community steel policy; whf>r*«s it 1s ne'essary, pursuant to this arrangement, to introduce in the Community measures to restrict the amount of these steel products esported to the U.S.A.;
2. Under present market conditions orderly trade relations with the
U.S.A. with respoct to certain steel products can best be maintained, and a contribution made to the success of the various other measures of the Community steel policy to restore the Community steel industry to a sound basis, by the introduction of restrictions on the amount of those products exported to the U.S. market;
In accordance with the Arrangement , the export restrictions cover steel products originating in the Community; the origin of these products is
determined in accordance with applicable community legislation, that is to say Council Regulation <EEC) n° 802/68 of 27th June 1968 on the common definition of the concept of the origin of goods (1) as last
amended by Regulation 1318/71 (2);
For practical and management reasons , the quantitative export limits agreed by the Community must be allocated between the Member States;
in order to do so, an allocation method must be established which
/ _7; thereafter the Member States
must share out the amounts allocated to them between undertakings in accordance with the objective criteria / _7;
5. A utilisation of the Community limits based on allocations between Member States made in this way would seem to be in accordance with the
Community nature of these limits, considering that in addition a Community reserve is to be established .
(1) O.J. n° L 148 of 28th June 1968, p. 1. <2) O.J. n° L 139 of 25th June 1971- p. 6.
 A Community reserve will allow certain effects of the allocation method to be corrected and ensure a maximum use of the export possibilities;
As foreseen in the Arrangement measures must be taken to avoid abnormal concentrations at certain times in the exports to the USA;
The Community steel policy aims in particular to allow the Community steel industry to adapt to the conditions of international competition; considering
on the one hand, the links between the industry's restructuring
efforts and the needs to which the Arrangement responds, and on the other hand that the Arrangement is limited to products originating in the Community
it is necessary to restrict the issue of export licences to steel producing undertakings only; in order to take account of the interests of distributive undertakings it must be possible for these licences to be transferred not only to production undertakings but also to distributive undertakings,
in particular where the production undertakings decide to sell their products to such distributive undertakings;
It appears necessary, and for the moment sufficient, that the Member States ensure the respect of the various provisions of the regime by applying the various penalties provided for in their laws;
10. In order to facilitate the application of the envisaged provisions, it is appropriate to set up a procedure establishing a close cooperation
between the Member States and the Commission in the framework of a Committee; it is sufficient to this purpose to apply the procedure set up in Council Regulation (EEC) No 1023/70 of 20 May 1970 which established a common procedure for the administration of quantitative quotas ( 1 ).
11. ThisregV at ondoes not prejudice any changes which may be made to the
regime which it establishes in cases where the application of the same leads to unforeseen diff iculties .
1. Community export limits are established for the period
1st October 1982 to 31st December 1983 ("the Initial Period") and there­ after for the years 1984 and 1985 for exports effected after 1st October 1982 from the Community to, or destined for consumption in, the United States of America ("USA") of the steel products originating in the Community which are listed and described in Anne * I ( hereinafter called
For the purposes of hereof, USA shall comprise US Custom Territory and
2, The origin of the products covered by this $eyVs^o^KVhall be determined in accordance with the rules in force in the Community.
1. Community export limits per product category shall be calculated by the Commission for the Initial Period and for the years 1984 and 1985 by application to the US Apparent Consumption within the meaning of
article 5 of the Arrangement of the following percentages;
4. Stainless steel sheet and strip and stainless steel plate
2. The Community export limits calculated pursuant to paragraph 1 shall be adjusted by the Commission to take account of revisions of the said US Apparent Qona;mption..
3. These limits may also be adjusted in line with the procedure envisaged in Article 8
- for advance use or carry-over of licences,
- to enable transfers between product categories,
- for additional quotas in case of short-supply,
- to take account of possible aberrations from seasonal trade
patterns in exports effected between 1st August and 30th September 1982 under the condition foreseen in the Arrangement.
1. The Community quantitative export limits established and calculated persuant to Article 2 shall be allocated for the Initial Period and for 1984 and for 1985 by the Commission 1n accordance with Annex III.
2. The Member States shall return to the Community reserve forseen 1n
Annex III within the first eight days of the third month of every quarter iuch portion of the amount of their allocation communicated to the iiommunity prussuant to Article 5 <1)for which licences have not been delivered by them.
The Community reserve Bhall be allocated . in line with the procedure envisaged in Article 8 . to one or more Member States to the extent
to which an adjustment of the allocations are necessary to improve the ' utilization of the quantitative exports Uirrites or to take account of difficulties in the administration of the system.
The Commission may establish th« technical conditions upon which licences are to be issued by the Member States In respect of such additional allo­ cation or allocations .
Community exports described 1n Article i effected between 1st October 1982 and 31 December 1985 shall be subject t!o the production to the competent customs office in the Community of an export licence to be delivered by the relevant authorities of each Member States within the limits of the amounts allocated to it pursuant to Article 3 and, where relevant, Article and of an export certificate.
Member States shall fix the tonnages for which they anticipate that licence will be issued, in each quarter for each product category: They shall Inform the Commission thereof in the first fifteen days of the relevant
quarter. In doing so, they shall make sure that the export licence issues
for each quarter ensures an adequate spread of exports over the whole year, taking into account the seasonal variations in trade of the product category in question .
 However, Member States shall not, without the prior authorisation of the Commission, issue in any two consecutive1 quarters licences for amounts which exceed 55 X of their allocation In the Initial Period or 65 X
of their allocation in 1984 and 1985.
Member States may, subject to the second paragraph hereof, issue further licences in the Initial Period, 1984 and 1985 respectively in respect of
the unutilized part of licences issued which have been returned to the authorities of such Member-State in the Initial Period, 1984 and 1985 respectively .
The licence shall be delivered to undertakings engaged in the production of steel within the Community and established in the issuing Member State in accordance with the following criteria :
 3. Transfers of export licences between undertakings or to distributive under­ takings may take place prvlded that they concern the same product category and after prior notification to the autorlties of the Member States in which the transfers or undertaking 1s established. Such transfers may
take place between undertakings established in different Member States.
4. Licences delivered 1n one Member State of the Community are valid throughout the Community .
5. Member States shall ensure that appropriate sanctions are applied 1n respect of all exports effected without production of the licence required hereunder and 1n respect of any other breaches of the provisions relating to such licences. Member States shall keep the Comnission informed of all breaches of such measures and of all sanctions Imposed 1n respect thereof, at intervals to be specified by the Commission.
6. The Commission maY lay down detailed rules for the Implementation of this Article and specify the Information to be provided to the Commission concerning the licences and exports .
1. Member States shall charge the amounts set out on the licences issued by then
against their respective allocations made pursuant to Article 3 and,
where relevant/ Article 4, including all licences subsequently transferred tc an undertaking in anothsr - Member State .
2. Member States shall keep records of the exports of the products. The product! shall be deemed to be so exported as at the date of acceptance by the
customs authorities of the Member State of export from the Community of the export declaration or of the document provided for in Article 18 of
Council Directive no . 81 / 1 77/ EEC of 24 February 1981 of procedures for the export of Community goods.
on the
\i 3. The extent to which a Member State has used up its allocation shall be deter- j
mined on the basis of licences delivered 1n accordance with Article 5.
O.J. No L 83 of 30.3.1981, p. 40
1. Temporary exports to the U.S.A. of products which are to be re-exported from the USA In the same form or without having been subject to substantial transformation sahll be charged against the allocation of the Member State whose authorities delivered the licence. Upon production to the authorities
of such Member State proof of such re-exportation from the USA, then the allocation of that Member State for the period when such proof 1s presented shall be increased by the same amount.
2. The Coi.....issic.i may lay down detailed rules for the implementation of this v Article .
In the cases where reference Is made to the procedure mentioned 1n the present article, the provisions of Article 11 of Regulation (EEC) No 1023/70 will apply.
This Regulation shall enter Into force on the third day following the day of Its publication 1n the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall . apply from 1st October 1982 .
This Regulation shall be binding 1n its entirety and directly applicable 1n all Member States .
Done at Brussels, For the Council The President
Stainless steel sheet
Note : Subject to further verification by experts on both sides
 US Customs territory and US foreign trade zones
Community reserve
Germany France Italy
Community reserve
Community reserve
Community reserve
Stainless steel sheet
,:<*) Netherlands – X Belqium – X
vftd indforslen.
v<:d indforolcrw
Grakenl and Psllesskabsreserve
6. This c«-tlf!cat« and th« export llcmc# «r th(» «xtr»ct tharof ta vhich it refart aust ba pradted at tfca Costais afflca at
which Cust<*» formal ltl « for wport ta th» l>ilted Statw af Aaerlca ara «%latad.
