In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
concerning the of the negotiations for the renewal of the Community's bilateral textile agreements
Report from the Commission to the Council concerning the results of the negotiations for the renewal of the Community's bilateral textile agreements
 On 26 February 1982 the Council decided that the cortinue^grarticipation
of the Community in the MFA is linked to the satisfac^^- renewal of
the Community's bilateral agreements and authorized^e Commission to open
negotiations for the renewal of the Community's bilateral textile agreements on the basis of the negotiating directives adopted at
that meeting and at its meetings of 17 Nov^jtBer and 8 December 1981 . The Commission undertook these negotiators and on 29 September 1982
presented the Council with a report ^j§fchcating that 1jf13ut of the Community's 27 bilateral partners f&d initialled agreements by that
time and describing the difficulties in the way of the resulting eight negotiations.
The Council considerec^SKogress in the negotiations in the light of this report and of Subsequent indications given by the Commission and
at its meetings of 25'- 26 October and 22 - 23 November 1982, decided upon certain additional flexibility in the Negotiating Directives.
As a re agreements have been initialled since September with
Brazi^knd four ASEAN countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines andSingapore) as well as with two of the three most developed and
competitive supplier countries (Hong Kong and Macao) in respect of which the Council's negotiating directives require reductions in existing quotas for the most sensitive clothing products. In the case of Korea, the settling of circumvention cases presented to Korea before 1 January 1983 appears to be the major issue on which the respective positions remain widely separated. The negotiations have therefore been temporarily suspended, it being understood that both sides expressed their willingness to resume negotiations as soon as
( 1 ) In the case of Indonesia the economic content had been agreed by that time but the text remained to be settled.
 possible. The Community has reserved this right to take restraint measures
if an acceptable agreement is not reached. Negotiations with Argentina
have also not yet yielded a result; a special a priori surveillance procedure may therefore have to be introduced on the basis of Regulation 288/82.
The Community has now initialled 25 bilateral textile agreements out ■ of the 27 covered by the Council's negotiating directives. These Agreemen^^
encompass around 90%of the Community's textile imports fromits MFApa^j^rs. All of the agreements initialled which have been negotiated in close
collaboration with the Article 113 Committee had been concluded within the global ceilings including the negotiating reserve, set by ^ie
Council. MemberStateshavebeeninformedthroughthe113^j^ittee
of the use made of the global ceilings. The terms of the^^^eements negotiated are also in accordance with the Council 's negotiating
directives. Differential treatment has been applied in respect of quota levels, growth rates and flexibility provisions as between the
Community's most developed and competitive si^^liers on the one hand andthoselessdevelopedandcompetitiveq^^ieother. Allofthe
agreements which establish quotas conta^^clauses to deal with surges within quotas, fraud and the introduction of new quotas (the "basket
exit mechanism"); in each case provision is made for action by the Community in the last, resort if consultations do not enable agreed solutions to be found .
These Agreements corraSybnding to the negotiating directives of the Council are satisfactory and the Commission therefore proposes that the Council adopt the attached draft decision concerning the
Community's ^jjtinued participation in the arrangement concerning internatic^j^trade in textiles (MFA). The agreements themselves
will b^^ansmitted to the Council for formal conclusion as soon as possible .
The new bilateral agreements imply by reason of the new and more elaborate provisions for securing more effective restraint on imports, an increase in the management tasks for the Commission. The new basket exit system provides for provisional limits pending consultations, the surge mechanism will mean that import flows need to be carefully monitored, while the
Community's efforts to deal with fraud will have to be stepped up. Finally the agreements can only be properly Implemented if the textile classification system is correctly applied to imported goods and the complex technical work
of adapting and updating the product classifications and NIMEXE 1s carried out effectively .
The Commission therefore urges the Council , in particular to transform within the framework of the appropriate budgetary procedure the expart and temporary
textiles posts created in 1978 into -permanent posts in order to ensure the proper management of the bi lateral 'agreements and arrangements in the future. This concerns a very limited number of posts to which temporary officials and experts have been appointed.
Article one
Recommendation for a Council Decision concerning the continued participation of the Community in the Arrangement concerning international trade in textiles
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community^ and in particular Article 113;
Having regard to the Commission's recommendation; Xy
Whereas by its decision of 26 February 1982 the Counci l^foproved on behalf
of the Community the protocol for the extension of the Arrangement concerning
international trade in textiles;
Whereas the continued participation of the tajfijriunity in the Arrangement is
linked to the renewal, in good time and q^^atisfactory terms, of the bilateral agreements based on the said^§?rangement which expire at the_end of this year;
Whereas by its decision of 26^ebruary 1982 the Council decided that if it did not decide upon such conti^^d participation the Community would have recourse
latest to the denunciation faculty provided for in •
Article 15 of the said Arrangement;
Whereas in the^ight of the Commission's report on the negotiations in respect of the abovfffcotentioned bilateral agreements, the continued participation of the
Communiti^n the Arrangement should be decided upon. HAS DECIDED AS FOLLOWS :
The Community shall continue to participate in the Arrangement concerning International Trade in Textiles .
Done at Brussels ,
For the Council The President
(Revised meeting of
text / following the special Chefs de Cabinet )
concerning th&^Srsults of the negotiations for the renewal of the ComriWflity's bilateral textiles agreements
( Communication from Mr Haferkamp , Mr Davignon and Mr Narjes )
-This question is on the agenda for the 672nd meeting of the Commission/ on Wednesday 8th December 1982 / under item 13 a .
Directorate-General for External Relations
- Draft report to the Council on the results of the textile negotiations and
- Draft Councl I Regulation on common rules for certain textile Imports ( special Chefs de Cabinets meeting 7 December - 12 h 00
The two above mentioned documents concern the results of*the bilateral textile negotiations which are still now going on. The report describes the state of
play as at Sunday evening 5 December, the regulation translates the consequences of the 25 agreements negotiated so far Into I^Cffernal Community law. Both documents
have to be considered by the Council at 1t^Jheet1ng on 13 December 1982.
By reason of the constantly evolving negotiations, both documents are at present available only 1n English, though every effort will be made to have a French version by 7 December.
Changes 1n the text of th^yeport and regulation to take account of last minute developments 1n the neq£^at1ons cannot be ruled out . The annexes to the draft
regulation will be circulated when negotiations have been concluded.
Report from the Commission to the Council concerning the results
of the negotiations for the renewal of the Community's bilateral ^ textile agreements
On 26 February 1982 the Council decided that the cortinu^participation
of the Community in the MFA is linked to the satisf^^ry renewal of
the Community's bilateral agreements and authorize^pthe Commission to open
negotiations for the renewal of the Community's bilateral textile agreements on the basis of the negotiating directives adopted at
that meeting and at its meetings of 17 No^ynber and 8 December 1981. The Commission undertook these negotiations and on 29 September 1982
presented the Council with a report^fei eating that T^^ut of the Community's 27 bilateral partners^^d initialled agreements by that
time and describing the difficulties in the way of the resulting eight negotiations.
The Council considere^progress in the negotiations in the light of
this report and of^bsequent indications given by the Commission and at its meetings of 25 - 26 October and 22 - 23 November 1982, decided
upon certain additional flexibility in the Negotiating Directives.
As a re^t agreements have been initialled sTITc~e Septemt)er^wttti
Brazi^^nd four ASEAN countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines
ar^Singapore) as well as with two of the three most developed and competitive supplier countries (Hong Kong and Macao) in respect of
which the Council's negotiating directives require reductions in 'existing quotas for the most sensitive clothing products. In the
case of Korea, the settling of circumvention cases presented to Korea before 1 January 1983 appears to be the major issue on which the respective positions remain widely separated. The negotiations have therefore been temporarily suspended, it being understood that both sides expressed their willingness to resume negotiations as soon as
( 1 ) In the case of Indonesia the economic content had been agreed by that time but the text remained to be settled.
 possible. The Community has reserved the right to take restraint measures if an acceptable agreement is not reached. Negotiations with Argentina have also not yet yielded a result. *
The Community has now initialled 25 bilateral textile agreements out
of the 27 covered by the Council's negotiating directives. These Agreem^&s
encompass around 90% of the Community's textile imports from its MFA^&ners. All of the agreements initialled which have been negotiated in close ^
collaboration with the Article 113 Committee had been concluded within the global ceilings including the negotiating reserve, set by the Council . Member States have been informed through the 413<>$)mmittee of the use made of the global cei lingS. The terms of th^jj^reements
negotiated are also in accordance with the CounciI's^j&jotiating directives. Differential treatment has been applied in respect of
quota levels, growth rates and flexibility provisions as between the
Community's most developed and competitive ^jppliers on the one hand and those less developed and competitive^pi^fche other. All of the
agreements which establish quotas cont^t*clauses to deal with surges
within quotas, fraud and the mtrod^^lon of new quotas (the "basket exit mechanism"); in each case provision is made for action by the
Community in the last resort if consultations do not enable agreed solutions to be found. v
These Agreements corr^jronding to the negotiating directives of the Council are satisfactory and the Commission therefore proposes that
the Council adopt the attached draft decision concerning the
Community's continued participation in the arrangement concerning
internatioi^btrade in textiles (MFA), The agreements themselves
will b^^ansmitted to the Council for formal conclusion as soon as possj&^e .
The new bilateral agreements imply by reason of the new and more elaborate provisions for securing more effective restraint on imports, an increase in the management tasks for the Commission. The new basket exit system provides for provisional limits pending consultations, the surge mechanism will mean that import flows need to be carefully monitored, while the Community's efforts to deal with fraud will have to be stepped up. Finally
the agreements can only be properly implemented if the textile classification system is correctly applied to Imported goods and the complex technical work
of adapting and updating the product classifications and NIMEXE 1s carried
out effectively .
The Commission therefore urges the Councilor) particular to transform within the framework of the appropriate budgetary procedure the expert and temporary
textiles posts created in 1978 into permanent posts in order to ensure the proper management of the bilateral agreements and arrangements in the future. This concerns a very limited number of posts to which temporary officials and experts have been appointed.
 Recommendation for a Council Decision concerning the continued participation of the Community in the Arrangement concerning international trade in textiles
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Communi^ and in particular Article 113;
Having regard to the Commission's recommendation;
Whereas by its decision of 26 February 1982 the Counci^lpproved on behalf
of the Community the protocol for the extension of the Arrangement concerning
international trade in textiles;
Whereas the continued participation of thedS&mmunity in the Arrangement is
linked to the renewal, in good time and^h satisfactory terms, of the
bilateral agreements based on the sa^^rrangement which expire at the end of this year;
Whereas by its decision of 26 February 1982 the Council decided that if it did not decide upon such continued participation the Community would have recourse
by 31 December 1982 a^^e latest to the denunciation faculty provided for in Article 15 of the sa%J Arrangement;
Whereas in the light of the Commission's report on the negotiations in respect
of the ab^Sp-mentioned bilateral agreements, the continued participation of the Communi^'in the Arrangement should be decided upon.
Article one
The Community shall continue to participate in the Arrangement concerning International Trade in Textiles .
For the Counci I The President
concerning th^joresults of the negotiations for the renewal of th^e CflLrmnunity's bilateral textiles agreements
(Communication from Mr Haferkamp . Mr Davignon and Mr Naries )
-This question is on the agenda for the 672nd meeting of the Commission, on Wednesday 8th December 1982 . under item 13 a .
Directorate-General for External Relations
- Draft report to the Council on the results of the textile negotiations and
- Draft Council Regulation on common rules for certain textile Imports (special Chefs de Cabinets meeting 7 December. 12 h 00
The two above mentioned documents concern the results of the bilateral textile negotiations which are still now going on. The report describes the state of play as at Sunday ev^jSB/ig 5 December/ the regulation translates the consequences
of the 25 agreements nef^lated so far Into Internal Community law. Both documents have to be considered by tf«^Counc1 1 at Its meeting on 13 December 1982.
By reason of the constantly evolving negotiations, both documents are at present
available only 1n English/ though evjj^ effort will be made to have a French version by 7 December. •
Changes 1n the text of the report and reguWq^>n to take account of last minute developments 1n the negotiations cannot be ruled out. The annexes to the draft
regulation will be circulated when negotiations have been concluded. %
Report from the Commission to the Council concerning the results of the negotiations for the renewal of the Community's bilateral textile agreements
Or^x^ February 1982 the Council decided that the cortinued participation
of tll^pommunity in the MFA is linked to the satisfactory renewal of
the Comm^fity's bilateral agreements and authorized the Commission to open
negotiations for the renewal of the Community's bilateral textile agreements on the basis of the negotiating directives adopted at
that meeting and a^^ts meetings of 17 November and 8 December 1981. The Commission under^^c these negotiations and on 29 September 1982
presented the Council w^^a report indicating that 1{^3ut of the Community's 27 bilateral partners had initialled agreements by that
time and describing the difficulties in the way of the resulting eight negotiations. ^
The Council considered progress in the V^otiations in the light of this report and of subsequent indications^^en by the Commission and
at its meetings of 25 - 26 October and 22 - 23 November 1982, decided upon certain additional flexibility in the Negotiating Directives.
As a result agreements have been initialled since Sejy^ljber with Brazil and four ASEAN countries (Indonesia, Malaysia, tft§^£hi lippines
and Singapore) as well as with two of the three most develcjj^ and competitive supplier countries (Hong Kong and Macao) in respect of
which the Council's negotiating directives require reductions in existing quotas for the most sensitive clothing products. In the
case of Korea, the settling of circumvention cases presented to Korea A before 1 January 1983 appears to be the major issue on which the respective positions remain widely separated. The negotiations have therefore been temporarily suspended, it being understood that both sides expressed their willingness to resume negotiations as soon as
( 1 ) In the case of Indonesia the economic content had been agreed by that time but the text remained to be settled.
 possible. The Community has reserved the right to take restraint measures if an acceptable agreement is not reached. Negotiations with Argentina have also not yet yielded a result.
The Community has now initialled 25 bilateral textile agreements out
of the 27 covered by the Council 's negotiating directives . These Agreements encompass around 90% of the Community's textile imports from its MFA partners. All of the agreements initialled which have been negotiated in close
collaboration with the Article 113 Committee had been concluded within the global ceilings including the negotiating reserve, set by the
Coum^. Member States have been informed through the 113 Committee of the^*^ made of the global cei lingS. The terms of the Agreements negotiate^^e also in accordance with the Council's negotiating directives. Differential treatment has been applied in respect of quota levels, growth rates and flexibility provisions as between the
Community's most dev^pped and competitive suppliers on the one hand and those less develoi^j^and competitive on the other. All of the
agreements which establi sl^^iotas contain clauses to deal with surges within quotas, fraud and th4introduction of new quotas (the "basket
exit mechanism"); in each case provision is made for action by the Community in the last resort if consultations do not enable agreed
solutions to be found. ^%
These Agreements corresponding to the negotr^'ng directives of the Council are satisfactory and the Commission therefore proposes that
the Council adopt the attached draft decision concerning the
Community's continued participation in the arrangement^oncerning
internationaltradeintextiles(MFA). Theagreementsti^^elves will be transmitted to the Council for formal conclusion al^fespn as
The new bilateral agreements imply by reason of the new and more elaborate
provisions for securing more effective restraint on imports, an increa^^ in the management tasks for the Commission. The new basket exit system
provides for provisional limits pending consultations, the surge mechanism ^ will mean that import flows need to be carefully monitored, while the
Community's efforts to deal with fraud will have to be stepped up. Finally the agreements can only be properly implemented if the complex technical work of adapting and updating the product classifications and NIMEXE is carried out effectively .
temporary officials and experts have been appointed.
The Commission therefore urges the Council to transform within the
framework of the appropriate budgetary procedure the expert and temporary textiles textiles posts created in 1978 into permanent posts in order to ensure
the proper management of the bilateral agreements and arrangements in
the future. This concerns a very limited number of posts to which
 Recommendation for a Council Decision concerning the continued participation of the Community in the Arrangement concerning international trade in textiles
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 113;
Having regard to the Commission's recommendation;
Whereas by its decision of 26 February 1982 the Council approved on behalf
of the Community the protocol for the extension of the Arrangement concerning international trade in textiles;
Whereas the continued participation of the Community in the Arrangement is
linked to the renewal, in good£time and on satisfactory terms, of the bilateral agreements based on the said Arrangement which expire at the end of this year;
Whereas by its decision of 26 February 198&the Council decided that if it did
not decide upon such continued participation^^? Community would have recourse by 31 December 1982 at the latest to the denunciation faculty provided for in
Article 15 of the said Arrangement;
Whereas in the light of the Commission's report on the negotiations in respect
of the above-mentioned bilateral agreements, the continued p^^icipation of the Community in the Arrangement should be decided upon.
A Article one ^ X
The Community shall continue to participate in the Arrangement concerning ^ International Trade in Textiles .
For the Counci I The President
