de produits agricôles;
for a Council Directive on the harmonization
of procedures for the exportation of goods
The purpose of this draft proposal for a Council directive is to harmonize customs procedures for the exportation of goods with a view to :
( a ) ensuring uniform implementation of the common policies applicable to goods exported to non-Community countries, with particular reference to the measures adopted within the framework of the Common Agricultural Policy; .
(b) ending present discrepancies in the treatment of firms operating within the Community since the rules vary according to the particular Member State in which they complete the export formalities for their goods.
To apply the principles of the Treaty of Rome relating to freedom of move­ ment for persons, goods and services and guarantee uniform application of the provisions on exports adopted within the framework of the Common Agri­ cultural Policy/ it has become necessary to establish customs procedures for the exportation of goods aimed at ending any discrimination between firms in the Community .
As they were framed to meet exclusively national requirements/ existing provisions may differ significantly from one Member State to another and thus give rise to discrepancies in treatment. Not only does the number of formalities required by the customs authorities for the exportation of goods vary but there are differences in the very substance of the legal commit­ ments binding the users of these procedures. These divergences between national export procedures became very obvious when the provisions of the Common Agricultural Policy were introduced/ especially in respect of
export refunds or the application of export levies or other amounts/ with the result that a number of special Community provisions had to be adopted to ensure that application of the system of export refunds or levies on exports within the Community was as uniform as possible.
However/ as these provisions were irevitably fragmentary/ they were not enough by .themselves to secure genuine equality of treatment among Community exporters .
Accordingly/ Article 2 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 192/75 of 17 January 1975 laying down detailed rules for the application of export refunds in respect of agricultural products ( 1 ) provides that " for the purposes of determining the rate of the refund the date of exportation shall be
the day on which the customs authority accepts the document by which the
(1) OJ No L 25 of 31.1.1975, p. 1
 declarant states his intention to export the products in question
This Regulation does not , however , specify the conditions under which this statement of intention ( i.e. the customs declaration ) may be accepted nor the conditions under which its contents Inay be modified or even cancelled after its acceptance .
This simple example underlines the urgent need for a complete set of detailed customs rules specifying the conditions to apply to exportation of goods to non-Community countries .
However, Community rules on procedures for the exportation of goods are
also needed for other reasons than just the implementation of the provisions of the Common Agricultural Policy. Given that customs procedures are a sine qua non for any common policy on trade with non-Community countries, it is clear that the Community must be able to avail itself of detailed common rules ensuring uniform implementation of these common policies throughout the Community .
The purpose of this proposal for a directive is just that. Its provisions
take account both of the experience of Member States in this particular field and of the changing form of customs procedures, due mainly to data processing techniques .
Since the Community Member States at present rely to a great extent on
exports to non-Community countries for continued economic activity, care­
ful attention was given when drafting the provisions of this proposal to
the need not to impede such exports or increase costs by making the procedures disproportionately strict .
In short, though everything possible must be done to place customs authorities in a position to ensure that procedures operate correctly and in particular
to avoid fraudulent practices harmful to the Community budget(1), every effort must be made to further exports of Community products to non-Community countries,for instance by simplifying procedures.
It is for the customs authorities of each Member State acting on their own responsibility to decide to allow use of Simplified procedures, taking into account in particular, the nature of the goods to be exported, the frequency and the financial implications of exportation, the commercial organisation of the exporting firm and the administrative means which might be used to keep an effective check on its activities .
These procedural rules must, of course, allow all Community exporters, where- ever possible, to operate in whibhever Member State they choose in accordance with the customs union provisions and the fundamental principles of the Treaty of Rome regarding freedom of movement for goods, persons and services.
This proposal sets out to achieve all these aims. Although the provisions in themselves are fairly precise, a number of implementing measures will be necessary to achieve uniform interpretation in all Member States. Wherever necessary, the Customs General Procedures Committee referred to by the Commission in its proposal for a Council directive on the harmonization of
procedures for the release of goods for free circulation (2 ) will therefore be consulted .
Since this proposal for a directive is based on Article 100 of the EEC Treaty, the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee must give their opinions .
(1) Thus, where the exportation of goods has implications for the Community budget ( export duties , refund , or other payments on exportation ) this proposal for a directive requires the declarant in all cases to provide the customs service with details precise enough to enable the customs to pursue the matter in accordance with the Law where an examination
of the goods shows that they do not correspond to those which were the subject of the export procedure .
(2) OJ No C 14 of 15.2.1974, p. 45 -
for a Council directive on the harmonization
of procedures for the exportation of goods
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 100 thereof ,
Having regard to the Commission 's proposal ,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, Whereas the Community is founded on a customs union;
Whereas, without prejudice to the transitional measures laid down in Title I, Chapter 1 of Part Four of the Act concerning the Conditions of Accession and the Adjustments to the Treaties (1), the establishment of the customs union is mainly governed by the provisions of Title I, Chapter 1 of Part Two of
the Treaty; whereas this Section contains a detailed set of provisions relating to the elimination of customs duties between Member States, the setting-up and progressive introduction of the common customs tariff and the autonomous alteration or suspension of duties in that tariff;
Whereas Article 27 provides that, before the end of the first stage, Member States shall, in so far as may be necessary, take steps to approximate their provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in respect of customs matters but does not give the Community institutions competence to adopt binding provisions in this matter; whereas a detailed examination carried out in conjunction with the Member States has shown the need for binding Community acts in certain fields to lay down the requisite for. introduction of customs legislation securing uniform implementation of the various Community provisions governing trade between Community Member States and non-Community countries ;
(1) OJ No L 73 of 27.3.1972, p. 14
 Whereas the procedural rules laid down in the laws, regulations and admini­ strative actions of Member States in respect of the exportation of goods are framed in the light of exclusively national interests: whereas they there­ fore take no account of the requirements of the customs union on which the Community is founded ;
Whereas these provisions vary significantly, thus causing discrepancies in
the application of export duties and other Community provisions to which the exportation of goods to non-Community countries may give rise;whereas the resulting discrepancies in the treatment of Community exporters, since rules vary according to the particular Member State in which the customs export formalities are completed, may lead to the diversion of traffic and artificial transfer of activities to other Member States;
Whereas these provisions directly affect the establishment and proper operation of the Common Market ;
Whereas the attainment of the objectives of the customs union has reached the stage where it is necessary to lay down common procedural rules for the exportation of Community goods to non-Community countries, at any rate in
the form of a directive ;
Whereas these common rules must aim at securing proper application both of export duties and other Community provisions to which the exportation of Community
goods to non-Community countries may give rise; whereas it is also important
to avoid any unnecessary formalities; whereas these rules must be sufficiently flexible to enable them to be adjusted to differing circumstances and to take account of changes in administrative methods, in particular as regards data processing ;
Whereas it is essential to secure uniform application of these common rules and 'consequent ly to make provision for a Community procedure the details of which can be laid down within appropriate time-limits,
Without prejudice to the application of any specific provisions which have been or are likely to be adopted under the common agricultural policy, this Directive determines the rules which must be incorporated in the provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States in respect of the exportation from the territory of the Community of goods fulfilling the conditions laid down in Article 9 (2) of the Treaty.
For the purposes of this Directive :
(a) Territory of the Community means, in the case of goods subject to
export duties or eligible to benefit from export refunds or other amounts, the geographical territory of the Community as defined in
the context of the Common Agricultural Policy,in the case of other goods it means the customs territory of the Community;
(b) export duties means the agricultural levies and other charges laid down within the framework of the common agricultural policy or of specific arrangements applicable, pursuant to Article 235 of the Treaty, to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products ;
(c) customs office means any office competent to accept the export declaration referred to in Article 2 .
The exportation from the territory of the Community of goods specified in
Article 1 (1) shall be conditional upon the presentation at a customs
office, in accordance with the conditions defined below, of an export declaration (hereinafter referred to as the "declaration").
The natural or legal person who makes the declaration shall hereinafter be referred to as "the declarant".
1 . The declaration shall be in writing on a form EX accompanied where appropriate by one or more forms EXC, complying with the models pro­ vided for by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2102/77 introducing a Community export declaration form (1). It shall be signed by the declarant and shall contain information necessary for the identification of the goods and for the application of export duties and all other measures to which the exportation of the goods in question may give rise.
2. The declaration shall be accompanied by all documents which it is necessary to produce for the correct application of export duties and such other measures to which the exportation of the goods in question may give rise .
1. The declaration may be presented at any customs office which is competent in accordance with national provisions, to complete the export formalities for the goods to which the declaration relates, once they have been produced at this office.
However the customs authority may allow the declaration to be presented before the declarant is in a position to produce the goods to it. In this case, it may set a time limit for the goods to be produced, to
be determined according to the circumstances. If the goods have not been produced within this time limit, the declaration shall be deemed not to have been presented .
2. For the purpose of applying the provisions of paragraph 1, goods shall be deemed to have been produced at a customs office when their arrival at the customs office, or at another place designated by the competent authorities, has been notified to the latter in the manner required to enable them to arrange for control or examination.
3. The declaration shall be presented at the customs office during the days and hours when this office is open.
However , the customs authority may at the declarant 's request and expense authorize the declaration to be presented outside these opening days and hours .
4. A declaration presented to the officials of the customs office in question at some other place designated for this purpose by agreement between the competent authorities and the person concerned shall be considered equivalent to a declaration at a customs office.
1 . Only declarations fulfilling the conditions laid down in Article 3 may be accepted by the customs authority. Such declarations shall be accepted by the customs authority forthwith in accordance with the procedures laid down in each Member State.
However, where, in application of the provisions of Article 4 (1) second subparagraph, a declaration has been presented before the goods to which it relates have arrived at the customs office or at another
place designated by the customs authority, such a declaration may only be accepted when the goods in- question have been produced to the competent authorities, within the meaning of Article 4 (2).
2. Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the date of acceptance of the declaration constitutes the operative date for the application of the provisions of Article 10.
The declarant shall be authorized , at his request , to amend declarations accepted by the customs authority in the circumstances referred to in Article 5,. as regards one or several items of information referred to
in Article 3 ( 1 ), subject to the following :
Ca) the amendment shall be requested before the customs authority has authorised exportation of the goods;
Cb) the amendment may no longer be granted where the request is made after the customs authority has informed the declarant of its intention to examine the goods or of its own finding that the information in question was inaccurate ;
(c) the amendment shall not have the effect of making the declaration refer to goods other than those to which it originally referred.
 3. The request for cancellation shall not
( a ) provides the competent authorities have not left the territory of the
be met unless the declarant :
with proof that the goods Community;
The customs authority may allow or require the amendments referred to in the previous subparagraph to be effected by means of presenting a new declaration intended to replace the original declaration. In this case, the date for determination of the export duties relating to the
goods in question and the date of application of all other measures to which their exportation may give rise shall be that of the acceptance of the original declaration.
1. As long as the goods have not left the territory of the Community, the declarant may request that the declaration relating to those goods be cancelled .
However, when the customs authority has informed the declarant of
its intention to examine the goods in respect of which the declaration was made, a request for cancellation may not be made until this examination has taken place .
2. The request for cancellation of the declaration may concern all or only part of the goods to which the declaration relates.
(b) produces to the said competent authorities any copy or copies of the export declaration together with any other documents delivered to him on acceptance of the declaration.
where appropriate , provides the competent authorities with the proof that the refunds and other amounts granted on exportation of the aoods in auestion have been reoaid or that the necessary measures have been taken by the services concerned so that they may not. be paid .
Where the goods declared for exportation have not Left the customs office or other place within the time limit laid down by the competent authorities , the declaration shall be deemed to be cancelled . The declarant shall be required :
- to produce to the said competent authorities any copy or copies of
the export declaration together with any other documents delivered to him on acceptance of the declaration.
- where appropriate, to provide the competent authorities with the proof that the refunds and other amounts granted on exportation of the
goods in question have been repaid or that the necessary measures
have been taken by the services concerned so that they may not be paid .
Cancellation of the declaration shall involve , as appropriate , cancellation of imputations on the export licence(s) presented in support of the declaration .
Cancellation of the declaration shall in no way preclude the application of sanctions for an offence committed by the declarant.
Without prejudice to the other means of control at its disposal, the customs authority may examine all or part of the declared goods.
The goods shall be examined in the places'and during the hours designated for that purpose.
However , the customs authority may permit , at the declarant 's request , the examination of goods at places and at times other than those specified above. Any expenses which may result shall be borne by the declarant .
Transport of goods to places for the purpose of examination , unpacking , repacking and all other operations required for examination shall be undertaken by the declarant or on his authority. He shall bear all charges incurred .
The declarant shall be entitled to be present or to be represented at the examination of the goods. If the customs authority sees fit, it may require the declarant to be present or to be represented at the examination of the goods for the purpose of providing the necessary assi stance .
5. The customs authority may, when the goods are being examined, take samples for analysis or detailed examination .
The casts incurred in connection with this analysis or detailed examination shall be borne by the administrative authority.
6. The provisions of paragraph 5 shall not preclude application of the second subparagraph of Article 8 (2) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2682 / 72 of 12 December 1972 laying down general rules for granting export refunds on certain agricultural products exported in the form
of goods not covered by Annex II to the Treaty and the criteria for .fixing the amount of such refunds. In this case, the cost of the
analysis carried out by the competent authorities shall be borne by the declarant .
1 . The results of the checking of the declaration and the accompanying documents, and of any examination that may be made of the goods, shall determine the calculation of export duties and export refunds and other amounts and the application of all other measures to which the exportation of goods may give rise. Where there is neither checking of the declaration and the accompanying documents nor examination of the goods, such calculation or application shall be effected on the basis of the information in the declaration .
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not preclude any subsequent verification by the competent authorities of the Member States where the goods have been declared for export nor any consequences of the application of existing provisions, particularly as regards alteration of the amount of export duties applicable to such goods or of the export refunds or other amounts that have been granted.
Without prejudice to the special provisions applicable under general or specific Community legislation, export duties to which the goods may be subject shall be levied in accordance with the rates and amounts in force at the date of acceptance of the declaration. The same date shall be the operative date for determining other elements necessary for the calculation of these duties and for the application of any other Community measures to which the exportation of the goods in question may give rise.
(1) 0J No L 289 of 27 December 1972, p. 13
Without prejudice to any alterations Liable to be made in application of the provisions of Article (2), the amount of export duties determined by the competent authorities shall be entered in the accounts by these authorities in the appropriate administrative forms and communicated to the declarant .
Without prejudice to the application of any prohibitions or restrictions the goods declared for export, the customs authority may not permit the exportation of the goods until the export duties which may be levied on them have been paid or guaranteed or arrangements have been made for deferred payment under the conditions laid down in the Council Directive
of 22 May 1978 on the harmonization of provisions laid down by law, regula­ tion or administrative action concerning deferred payment of import
When determining the form in which it is to grant authorization to export goods the .customs authority shall take into account the location of those
goods and the detailed rules under which it exercises the surveillance over them .
Goods which have received an export authorization shall remain under the
control of the customs authority until they leave the territory of the Community.
1. As far as is administratively possible, Member States shall authorize the use of the special procedures defined in Articles 15 to 20-
(1) 0J No L 146 of 2.6.1978, p. 19
2. Save as otherwise provided in Articles 15 to 20, the provisions of Title I are applicable to the special procedures laid down in these Articles .
A. Exemption from written declaration
1. Without prejudice to the application of the special provisions laid down with regard to consignments by letter post and parcel post, Member States may provide that goods exported for non-commercial purposes and goods
of low value, such as those contained in travellers' personal luggage, shall not be the subject of a written declaration.
Exemption from a written declaration may also be given in respect of :
- agricultural , stock-farming , horticultural and forestry products obtained within the territory of the Community from land in border areas exploited by owners or tenant farmers whose business headquarters are in a non- Member State in the immediate vicinity of the frontier with the Community,
- seeds to be used for the exploitation of land in a non-Member State in the immediate vicinity of the territory of the Community by owners or tenant farmers whose business headquarters are located in that territory in the immediate vicinity of the non-Member State.
2. Paragraph 1 shall not apply to goods in respect of which an export licence is required or for which export refunds or other amounts are requested.
 B. Preparation of general , periodic or recapitulative declarations
1. W.ithout prejudice , where appropriate , to the application of the provisions of Article 18, the competent authorities may authorize the declarant to furnish, or insert at a later date, certain information as part of the declaration in the form of supplementary declarations which may be of
a general , periodic or recapitulative character .
2. Statements made in supplementary declarations together with statements made in declarations to which they refer, shall be deemed to constitate a single indivisible instrument taking effect from the date when the corresponding initial declaration was accepted.
3. The competent authorities may make the granting of the facilities provided for in this Article conditional upon the lodging of a security, the nature and amount of which they shall determine.
When the procedure provided for in Article 16 is applied, the initial declarations relating to each consignment of goods must invariably contain the information necessary for identification of the goods.
Where the exportation of goods has implications for the Community budget as regards either receipts or expenditure details of the precise tariff
heading into which the goods fall and their nett quantity must also appear in the initial declarations.
C. Replacement by codified data of all or part of the information contained in the declaration
1 . The competent authorities may authorize the declarant to replace all or part of the information contained in the written declaration referred to in Article 3 (1) by communicating to the customs office designated for this purpose codified data, or data made out in any other form determined by the competent authorities that corresponds to the infor­ mation required for written export declarations, with a view to computer processing .
2. The conditions under which such data are to be sent shall be determined by the competent authorities.
3. The conditions to be satisfied by the person concerned in order to obtain authorization to follow the simplified procedure defined in this Article shall be laid down by the competent authorities. The authorization may
be restricted to certain goods specified by them and it may be revoked
at any time.
4. Application of the provisions of this Article shall in no way preclude the exercise by the customs authority of any controls which it considers necessa.ry to ensure that the operations are correctly carried out.
D. Granting of authorization for exportation before presentation of the declaration
1. Where justified by the circumstances, the competent auhtonties may authorize the exportation of the goods as soon as they have been produced
at, the customs office designated for that purpose and without presentation of the declaration referred to in Article 3 .
Authorization to export the goods shall be conditional on the presentation at the competent customs office of a commercial document containing the information necessary for identification of the goods, accompanied by
a request signed by the person concerned for exportation of the said goods.
Where the exportation of goods has implications for the Community budget, as regards either receipts or expenditure details of the precise tariff
heading into which the goods fall and their nett quantity must be indicated on that commercial document .
Where the application of Community measures to which the exportation of the goods in question gives rise is subject to the presentation of any other document , that document must accompany the commercial document .
Acceptance by the customs office of that commercial document shall in every respect have the same legal force as acceptance of the declaration referred to in Article 3 .
3. When circumstances so permit, the competent authorities may agree to the request referred to in paragraph 2 being replaced by a comprehensive request covering exports to be carried out during a specific period. Reference shall be made to this comprehensive request in the commercial document to be presented for each export in accordance with the first subpraragraph of paragraph 2 .
4. The customs authority may, if it considers it necessary, make exportation of the goods conditional on their being examined on the basis of the information contained in the commercial document referred to in para­ graph 2 .
5. The declaration relating to goods covered by the simplified procedure referred to in paragraph 1 must be presented at the competent customs office within the period laid down by the competent authorities, such period may not exceed 1 month from the date of acceptance of the commercial document referred to in paragraph 2.
For the purposes of application of the provisions of Article 10, this declaration shall take effect on the date on which the customs authority
accepts the commercial document referred to in paragraph 2.
Provided that the provisions of the second subparagraph of paragraph 5 are adhered to, the customs authority may allow general, periodic or recapitulative declarations in respect of goods, without prejudice, where relevant, to application of the provisions of Article 18-
Authorization to use the simplified procedure laid down in this Article shall be granted only to those persons able to provide all guarantees deemed necessary by the competent authorities. It may be granted on an occasional or a permanent basis. In the latter case, it can be restricted to certain goods ; it may be revoked at any time .
The application of the provisions of this Article shall in no way pre­ clude the exercise by the customs authority of any controls which it considers necessary in order to ensure that the operations are correctly carried out .
The competent authorities may make the grantinp of the simplified proce­ dure provided for in this Article subject to the lodging of a security, the nature and amount of which they shall determine.
The competent authorities may authorize natural or legal persons who frequently export goods to send these goods directly from their premises to the customs office responsible for verifying that they have left the territory of the Community without it first being necessary for them to present to a competent customs office the declaration referred to in Article 3.
Before the goods leave these premises, the holder of the authorization referred to in paragraph 1 shall :
( a.) give the competent authorities adequate notice of dispatch , in the manner and from laid down by the latter, for the purpose of obtaining authorization to export the goods in question;
(b) enter the said goods in the records. Entry shall be carried out in the manner and form laid down by the customs authorities, indicating the date on which entry was made and the information necessary for identification of the goods;
Where the exportation of goods has implications for the Community budget , as regards either recepts or expenditure , details of the . precise tariff heading into which the goods fall, and their nett quantity must also appear in the records of the holder of the authorization .
make available to the competent authorities any documents , in parti­ cular export or advance-fixing certificates, that may have to be presented for the application of Community measures to which the
exportation of particular goods may give rise.
Compliance with the formalities referred to in subparagraphs Ca) and (c) shall in all respects have the same legal force as acceptance
of the declaration referred to in Article 3 .
3. To extent that checking on the regularity of transactions is not affected thereby, the competent authorities may in certain circumstances when t,hey consider it to be justified, exempt the authorized person
from the obligation to notify the competent customs office of each departure of goods, on condition that he provides that office with
all the information that it deems necessary to permit it to exercise, where appropriate, its right to examine the said goods. Entry of the
goods in the records shall in that case be equivalent to authorization of their exportation.
The categories of goods which may be allowed the advantage of the provisions of the preceding subparagraph are defined under the procedure referred to in Article 2-1 (2).
4. Where the customs service decides to examine the goods, the examination shall be effected on the basis of the information in the records of the person concerned .
5. The declaration relating to the goods which are the subject of the authorization referred to in paragraph 1 must be presented at the customs office designated for that purpose within the period fixed by the competent auhorities. Such period may not exceed 1 month from the date of entering the goods in the records of the person concerned.
For the purpose of the application of the provisions of Article 10 this declaration shall take effect on the date of the entry of the said goods in the records of the person concerned.
6. The authorization to use the simplified procedure laid down in this Article shall be granted only to those persons able to provide all guarantees deemed neces-sary by the competent authorities. It may be restricted to certain goods and be revoked at any time.
7. The provisions of paragraphs 6, 8 and 9 of Article 19 shall also apply where there is recourse to the provisions of this Afticle.
8. The entry of the goods in the accounting records of the person concerned which is provided for in paragraph 2 (b) may be replaced by any other
similar formality offering analogous guarantees defined under the proce­ dure referred to in Article 21(2).
1. The Customs General Brocedures Committee provided for in Article
of Council Directive of on the harmonization of procedures for the release of goods for free circulation (1) may examine all matters relating to the application of this Directive as are out to it b/ its chairman/ whether on his own initiative or at
the request of the representative of a Member State.
2. The provisions necessary for the application of Article 3/ Articles 5 to 7, Article 8 (1)(4) and (5)/ Article 9 (1) and Articles 18 to 20
of this Directive shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27 (2) and (3) of the Council Directive on the harmonisation
of procedures for the release of goods for free circulation.
The Member States shall bring into force , not later than 1 January 1981 , the measures necessary to comply with this Directive.
2. Each Member State shall inform the Commission of the provisions which it makes for the application of this Directive.
The Commission shall communicate this information to the other Member States .
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels . " For the Council
( presented by the Commission to the
Brussels - 12 July 1979
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
To apply the principles of the Treaty of Rome relating to freedom of move­ ment for persons, goods and services and guarantee uniform application of the provisions on exports adopted within the framework of the Common Agri­ cultural Policy, it has become necessary to establish customs procedures for the exportation of goods aimed at ending any discrimination between firms in the Community .
As they were framed to meet exclusively national requirements, existing provisions may differ significantly from one Member State to another and thus give rise to discrepancies in treatment. Not only does the number of formalities required by the customs authorities for the exportation of goods vary but there are differences in the very substance of the legal commit­ ments binding the users of these procedures. These divergences between national export procedures became very obvious when the provisions of the Common Agricultural Policy were introduced, especially in respect of
export refunds or the application of export levies or other amounts, with the result that a number of special Community provisions had to be adopted to ensure that application of the system of export refunds or levies on exports within the Community was as uniform as possible.
However , as these provisions were irevitably fragmentary , they were not enough by themselves to secure genuine equality of treatment among Community exporters .
Accordingly, Article 2 of Commission Regulation (EEC) No 192/75 of 17 January 1975 laying down detailed rules for the application of export refunds in respect of agricultural products ( 1 ) provides that " for the purposes of determining the rate of the refund the date of exportation shall be
the day on which the customs authority accepts the document by which the
(1) OJ No L 25 of 31.1.1975, p. 1
declarant states his intention to export the products in question
This Regulation does not , however , specify the conditions under which this statement of intention ( i.e. the customs declaration ) may be accepted nor the conditions under which its contents toay be modified or even cancelled after its acceptance .
This simple example underlines the urgent need for a complete set of detailed customs rules specifying the conditions to apply to exportation of goods to non-Community countries .
However, Community rules on procedures for the exportation of goods are
also needed for other reasons than just the implementation of the provisions of the Common Agricultural Policy. Given that customs procedures are a sine qua non for any common policy on trade with non-Community countries, it is clear that the Community must be able to avail itself of detailed common rules ensuring uniform implementation of these common policies throughout the Community .
The purpose of this proposal for a directive is just that. Its provisions
take account both of the experience of Member States in this particular field and of the changing form of customs procedures, due mainly to data processing techniques .
Since the Community Member States at present rely to a great extent on
exports to non-Community countries for continued economic activity, care­
ful attention was given when drafting the provisions of this proposal to
the need not to impede such exports or increase costs by making the procedures disproportionately strict .
In short, though everything possible must be done to place customs authorities in a position to ensure that procedures operate correctly and in particular
 an effective check on its
to avoid fraudulent practices harmful to the Community budgetd ), every effort must be made to further exports of Community products to non-Community countries/for instance by simplifying procedures.
It is for the customs authorities of each Member State acting on their own responsibility to decide to allow use of Simplified procedures, taking into account in particular, the nature of the goods to be exported, the frequency and the financial implications of exportation, the commercial organisation of the exporting firm and the administrative means which might be used to keep
These procedural rules must , of course , allow all Community exporters , where- ever possible, to operate in whichever Member State they choose in accordance with the customs union provisions and the fundamental principles of the Treaty of Rome regarding freedom of movement for goods, persons and services.
This proposal sets out to achieve all these aims. Although the provisions in themselves are fairly precise, a number of implementing measures will be necessary to achieve uniform interpretation in all Member States. Wherever necessary, the Customs General Procedures Committee referred to by the Commission in its proposal for a Council directive on the harmonization of procedures for the release of goods for free circulation (2 ) will therefore be consulted .
Since this proposal for a directive is based on Article 100 of the EEC Treaty, the European Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee must give their opinions .
Thus , where the exportation of goods has implications for the Community budget ( export duties , refund , or other payments on exportation ) this proposal for a directive requires the declarant in all cases to provide the customs service with details precise enough to enable the customs to pursue the matter in accordance with the law where an examination
of the goods shows that they do not correspond to those which were the subject of the export procedure.
(2) 0J No C 14 of 15.2.1974, p. 45
for a Council directive on the harmonization
of procedures for the exportation of goods
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 100 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee, Whereas the Community is founded on a customs union;
Whereas, without prejudice to the transitional measures laid down in Title I, Chapter 1 of Part Four of the Act concerning the Conditions of Accession and the Adjustments to the Treaties (1), the establishment of the customs union is mainly governed by the provisions of Title I, Chapter 1 of Part Two of
the Treaty; whereas this Chapter contains a series of detailed provisions relating to the elimination of customs duties between Member States, the setting-up and progressive introduction of the common customs tariff and the autonomous alteration or suspension of duties in that tariff;
Whereas Article 27 provides that, before the end of the first stage, Member States shall, in so far as may be necessary, take steps to approximate their provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in respect of customs matters but does not give the Community institutions competence to adopt binding provisions in this matter; whereas a detailed examination carried out in conjunction with the Member States has shown the need for binding Community acts in certain fields as a prerequisite for the introduction of customs legislation securing uniform implementation of the various Community provisions governing trade between the Community and non-
(1) 0J No L 73 of 27.3.1972, p. 14
 Whereas the procedural rules laid down by laws, regulation or administrative action in the Member States in respect of the exportation of goods are framed in the Light of exclusively national interests: whereas they there­ fore take no account of the requirements of the customs union on which the Community is founded ;
Whereas these provisions moreover vary significantly, thus causing discrep­ ancies in the application of export duties and of any other Community provisions to which the exportation of goods to non-Community countries
may give rise; whereas the resulting discrepancies in the treatment of Community exporters, since rules vary according to the particular Member State in which the customs export formalities are completed, may lead to deflections of trade and artificial transfers of business;
Whereas these provisions directly affect the establishment and proper operation of the common market;
Whereas the attainment of the objectives of the customs union has reached the stage where it is necessary to lay down, at the very least in the form of a directive, common procedural rules for the exportation of Community goods to non-Community countries ;
Whereas these common rules must aim at securing proper application both of export duties and of any other Community provisions to which the exportation of Community goods to non-Community countries may give rise; whereas it is , however , important to avoid any unnecessary formalities ; whereas the rules must be sufficiently flexible to enable them to be adjusted to differing circumstances and to take account of changes in administrative methods , in particular as regards data processing ;
Whereas it is essential to secure uniform application of these common rules and to this end to make provision for a Community procedure for the adoption of the necessary implementing rules within an appropriate period .
1 . Without prejudice to the application of any specific provisions which have been or may be adopted under the common agricultural
policy, this Directive determines the rules to be contained
in the provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States in respect of the exportation from the territory of the Community of goods fulfilling the conditions laid down in Article 9 (2) of the Treaty.
the purposes of this Directive :
territory of the Community means :
- in the case of goods subject to export duties or eligible to
benefit from export refunds or other amounts, the geographical territory of the Community as defined for purposes of the common agricultural policy;
- in the case of other goods, the customs territory of the Community;
export duties means the agricultural levies and other charges
provided for under the common agricultural policy or the
specific arrangements applicable, pursuant to Article 235 of the Treaty, to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products ;
customs office means any office competent to accept the export declaration referred to in Article 2.
The exportation from the territory of the Community of the goods referred
to in Article 1 (1) shall be conditional upon the presentation at a customs
office , in accordance with the conditions defined below , of an export declaration ( hereinafter referred to as the "declaration ").
The natural or legal person who makes the declaration is hereinafter referred to as "the declarant".
1. The declaration shall be in writing on a form EX accompanied where appropriate by one or more forms EXC, complying with the models set
out in Council Regulation (EEC) No 2102/77 introducing a Community export declaration form (1). It shall be signed by the declarant and
shall contain the information necessary for the indent i fi cation of the goods and for the application of export duties and of any other measures to
which the exportation of the goods in question may give rise.
However the customs authority may allow the declaration to be presented before the declarant is in a position to produce the goods to it. In this case, it may set a time limit for the goods to be produced, to
be determined according to the circumstances. If the goods have not been produced within this time limit, the declaration shall be deemed not to have been presented .
For purposes of paragraph 1 , goods shall be considered
to have been produced at a customs office when their arrival
at the customs office, or at another place designated by the competent authorities, has been notified to the latter in the manner required to enable them to arrange for control or examination.
2. The declaration shall be accompanied by all the documents which it is necessary to produce for purposes of the correct application of export duties and of any other measures to which the exportation of the goods in question may be subject .
1. The declaration may be presented at any customs office which is competent , in accordance with national provisions , to complete the export formalities for the goods to which the declaration relates, once they have been produced at this office.
3. The declaration shall be presented at the customs office during the days and hours when this office is open.
However , the customs authority may at the declarant 's request and expense authorize the declaration to be presented outside these opening days and hours .
4. A declaration presented to the officials of the customs office in question at some other place designated for this purpose by agreement between the competent authorities and the person concerned shall be considered equivalent to a declaration at a customs office.
1 . Only declarations fulfilling the conditions laid down in Article 3 may be accepted by the customs authority. Such declarations shall be accepted by the customs authority forthwith in accordance with the procedures laid down in each Member State.
However, where, in accordance with Article 4 (1)
second subparagraph, a declaration has been presented before the goods to which it relates have arrived at the customs office or at another
place designated by the customs authority, such a declaration may only be accepted when the goods in question have been produced to the competent authorities, within the meaning of Article 4 (2).
2. Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that the date of acceptance of the declaration constitutes the operative date for the application of Article 10.
The declarant shall be authorized , at his request , to amend declarations accepted by the customs authority in the circumstances referred to in Article 5, as regards one or more items of information referred to
in Article 3 ( 1 ), subject to the following conditions :
( a ) the amendment must be requested before the customs authority has authorised exportation of the goods;
(b) the amendment may no longer be granted where the request is made after the customs authority has informed the declarant of its intention to examine the goods or of its own finding that the information in question was inaccurate ;
Cc) the amendment must not have the effect of making the declaration refer to goods other than those to which it originally referred.
The customs authority may allow or require the amendments referred to in the previous paragraph to be effected by means of a new declaration replacing the original declaration. In this case, the date for the determination of the export duties relating to the
goods in question and the date of application of any other measures to which their exportation may give rise shall be that of the acceptance of the original declaration.
1. As long as the goods have not left the territory of the Community, the declarant may request that the declaration relating to those goods be cancelled .
However, when the customs authority has informed the declarant of
its intention to examine the goods in respect of which the declaration was made, a request for cancellation may not be made until this examination has taken place .
2. The request for cancellation of the declaration may concern all or only part of the goods to which the declaration relates.
3. The request for cancellation shall not be met unless the declarant :
( a ) provides the competent authorities with proof that the goods have not left the territory of the Community;
(b) produces to the said competent authorities all copies of
the export declaration together with any other documents delivered to him on acceptance of the declaration.
(c) where appropriate , provides the competent authorities with Droof that the refunds and other amounts granted on exportation of the aoods in auestion have been reoaid or that the necessary measures have been taken by the services concerned so that they may not be paid .
4. Where the goods declared for exportation have not left the customs
office or other designated place within the time limit laid down by the
competent authorities , the declaration shall be deemed to be cancelled .
The .declarant is required :
- to re-produce to the said competent authorities all copies of
the export declaration together with any other documents delivered to him on acceptance of the declaration.
- where appropriate, to provide the competent authorities with proof that the refunds and other amounts granted on exportation of the goods in question have been repaid or that the necessary measures have been taken by the services concerned so that they may not be paid .
Cancellation of the declaration shall involve, as appropriate, the cancellation of attributions on the export licence or licences presented in support of the declaration.
6. Cancellation of the declaration shall in no way preclude the application of sanctions for an offence committed by the declarant.
1. Without prejudice to the other means of control at its disposal, the customs authority may examine all or part of the declared goods.
2. The goods shall be examined in the places and during the hours designated for that purpose.
However, the customs authority may permit, at the declarant's request, the examination of goods at places and at times other than those
specified above. Any costs which may result shall be borne by the declarant .
3. Transport of the goods to the places where they are to be examined, and their unpacking, repacking and all other operations required for examin­
ation shall be undertaken by the declarant or on his authority. He shall bear all costs incurred .
4. The declarant shall be entitled to be present or to be represented at
the examination of the goods. The customs authority may, if it considers it appropriate, require the declarant to be present or to be represented at the examination of the goods for the purpose of providing the
necessary assistance.
5. The customs authority may, when the goods are being examined, take samples for analysis or detailed examination .
The costs incurred in connection with this analysis or detailed examination shall be borne by the administrative authority.
6. The provisions of paragraph 5 shall not preclude application of the second subparagraph of Article 8 (3) of Council Regulation (EEC) No 2682 / 72 of 12 December 1972 laying down general rules for granting export refunds on certain agricultural products exported in the form of goods not covered by Annex II to the Treaty and the criteria for fixing the amount of such refunds ( 1 ). In such cases , the cost of the analysis carried out by the competent authorities shall be borne by the declarant .
1 . The results of the checking of the declaration and the accompanying documents, and of any examination of the goods, shall serve as a basis
for the calculation of export duties and export refunds and other amounts and for the application of any other measures to which the exportation
of the goods may give rise. Where there is no checking of
the declaration and the accompanying documents or examination of the goods, such calculation or application shall be effected on the basis of the information in the declaration .
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not preclude any subsequent verification by the competent authorities of the Member States
nor any consequences of the application of existing provisions, parti­ cularly as regards alteration of the amount of export duties applicable to such goods or of the export refunds or other amounts granted.
Without prejudice to the special provisions applicable under general or specific Community legislation, export duties to which the goods may be subject shall be levied in accordance with the rates and amounts in force at the date of acceptance of the declaration. The same date shall be the operative date for determining other elements necessary for the calculation of these duties and for the application of any other Community measures to which the exportation of the goods in question may give rise.
(1) 0J No L 289 of 27 December 1972, p. 13
As far as is administratively possible , Member States shall authorize the use of the special procedures defined in Articles 15 to 20.
(1) 0J No L 146 of 2.6.1978, p. 19
Without prejudice to any alterations as referred to in Article 9 (2), the amount of the export duties determined by the competent authorities shall be entered in the accounts by these authorities in the appropriate administrative forms and communicated to the declarant.
Without prejudice to the application of any prohibitions or restrictions as regards the goods declared for export, the customs authority may not permit the exportation of the goods until any export duties levied upon them have been paid or guaranteed or arrangements have been made for their deferred payment under the conditions laid down in the Council Directive 78/ 453/ EEC of 22 May 1978 on the harmonization of provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action concerning deferred payment of import duties or export duties ( 1 ).
1. When determining the form in which it is to grant authorization to export the goods the customs authority shall take into account their
location and the particular arrangements under which it exercises surveillance over them .
2. Goods which have received an export authorization shall remain under the control of the customs authority until they leave the territory of the Community.
 2 . Save as otherwise provided in Articles 15 to 20 , the provisions of Title I are applicable to the special procedures laid down in those Articles .
A. Exemption from written declaration
1 . Without prejudice to the application of the special provisions laid down
with regard to consignments by letter and parcel post, Member States
may provide that goods exported for non-commercial purposes and goods ι
of low value, such as those contained in travellers' personal luggage, shall not be the subject of a written declaration.
Exemption from a written declaration may also be given in respect of :
- agricultural , stock-farming , horticultural and forestry products obtained within the territory of the Community from land in border areas exploited by owners or tenant farmers whose business headquarters are in a non- Member State in the immediate vicinity of the frontier with the Community,
- seeds to be used for the exploitation of land in a non-Member State in the immediate vicinity of the territory of the Community by owners or tenant farmers whose business headquarters are located in that territory in the immediate vicinity of the non-Member State.
2. Paragraph 1 shall not apply to goods in respect of which an export licence is required or for which export refunds or other amounts are requested.
B. Preparation of general , periodic or recapitulative declarations
Without prejudice to the application , where relevant ,
of Article 18, the competent authorities may authorize the declarant to furnish , or insert at a later date , certain items of the
declaration in the form of supplementary declarations which may be of
a general, periodic or recapitulative character.
2. Statements made in supplementary declarations together with statements made in declarations to which they refer, shall be deemed to constitate a single indivisible instrument taking effect from the date when the corresponding initial declaration was accepted .
3. The competent authorities may make the granting of the facilities provided for in this Article conditional upon the lodging of a security, the nature and amount of which they shall determine.
When the procedure provided for in Article 16 is applied, the initial declarations relating to each consignment of
goods must in any event contain the information necessary for identification of the goods.
In the case of goods whose exportation has implications for the Community budget as regards either receipts or expenditure, details of the precise tariff heading into which the goods fall and their net quantity must also appear in the initial declarations .
C. Replacement by codified data of all or part of the information contained in the declaration
1 . The competent authorities may authorize the declarant to replace all or
part of the information contained in the written declaration referred
tcf in Article 3 (1) by communicating to the customs office designated
for this purpose codified data, or data made out in any other form
determined by the competent authorities that corresponds to the infor­
mation required for written export declarations, with a view to computer processing .
2. The conditions under which such data are to be communicated shall be determined by the competent authorities .
3. The conditions to be satisfied by the declarant authorization to follow the simplified procedure shall be laid down by the competent authorities. be restricted to certain goods specified by them at any time.
in order to obtain defined in this Article
The authorization may and it may be revoked
4. Application of the provisions of this Article shall in no way preclude the exercise by the customs authority of any controls which it considers necessary to ensure that the operations are correctly carried out.
D. Granting of authorization for exportation before presentation of the declaration
1. Where justified by the circumstances, the competent authorities may authorize the exportation of the goods as soon as they have been produced
at the customs office designated for that purpose and without presentation of the declaration referred to in Article 3 .
2. Authorization to export the goods shall be conditional on the presentation at the competent customs office of a commercial document containing the information necessary for identification of the goods, accompanied by
an application signed by the person concerned for the exportation of the said goods.
In the case of goods whose exportation has implications for the Community budget , as regards either receipts or expenditure , details of the precise
tariff heading into which the goods fall and their net quantity must be indicated on that commercial document .
Where the application of Community measures to which the exportation of the goods in question gives rise is subject to the presentation of any other document, that document must accompany the commercial document-
Acceptance by the customs office of that commercial document shall have in every respect the same legal effect as acceptance of the declaration referred to in Article 3 .
3. When circumstances so permit, the competent authorities may agree to the application referred to in paragraph 2 being replaced by a general application covering exports to be carried out during a specific period. Reference shall be made to this general application in the commercial document to be presented for each export in accordance with the first subparagraph of paragraph 2 .
4. The customs authority may, if it considers it necessary, make exportation of the goods conditional on their being examined on the basis of the information contained in the commercial document referred to in para­ graph 2 .
5. The declaration relating to goods covered by the simplified procedure referred to in paragraph 1 must be presented at the competent customs office within the period laid down by the competent authorities. Such period may not exceed 1 month from the date of acceptance of the commercial document referred to in paragraph 2.
For purposes of Article 10, this declaration shall take effect on the date on which the customs authority accepts the commercial document referred to in paragraph 2.
6. Without prejudice to the second subparagraph of paragraph 5 and to the application , where relevant , of Article 18, the customs authority may allow general, periodic or recapitulative declarations in respect of goods .
7. Authorization to use the simplified procedure laid down in this Article shall be granted only to those persons able to provide all guarantees deemed necessary by the competent authorities. It may be granted on an occasional or a permanent basis. In the latter case, itmay be restricted to certain goods . It may be revoked at any time .
8. The application of the provisions of this Article shall in no way pre­ clude the exercise by the customs authority of any controls which it
considers necessary in order to ensure that the operations are correctly carried out .
9. The competent authorities may make the granting of the simplified proce­ dure provided for in this Article subject to the lodging of a security, the nature and amount of which they shall determine.
The competent authorities may authorize natural or legal persons who frequently export goods to send these goods directly from their premises to the customs office responsible for verifying that they have left the territory of the Community without it first being necessary for them to present to a competent customs office the declaration referred to in Article 3.
Before the goods leave these premises, the holder of the authorization referred to in paragraph 1 shall :
( a ) give the competent authorities adequate notice of dispatch , in the manner and form laid down by the latter, for the purpose of obtaining authorization to export the goods in question;
enter the said goods in the records . Entry shall be carried out in the manner and form laid down by the customs authorities, indicating the date on which entry was made and the information necessary for identification of the goods;
Where the exportation of goods has implications for the Community budget , as regards either recepts or expenditure , details of the precise tariff heading into which the goods fall, and their net quantity must also appear in the records of the holder of the authorization .
make available to the competent authorities any documents , in parti­ cular export licences or advance-fixing certificates, that may have to be presented for the application of Community measures to which the exportation of particular goods may give rise.
Compliance with the formalities referred to in subparagraphs Ca) and (c) shall have in all respects the same legal effect as acceptance
of the declaration referred to in Article 3.
3. Insofar as the checking of transactions is not affected thereby, the competent authorities may in certain special circumstances justified by the nature of the goods in question and by the accelerated rate of export, exempt the authorized person from the obligation to notify the competent . customs office of each departure of goods, on condition that he provides that office with all the information that it deems necessary to permit
it to exercise , where appropriate , its right to examine the said goods . Entry of the goods in the records shall in that case be equivalent to authorization of their exportation.
The categories of goods eligible for the treatment provided for in the preceding subparagraph shall be defined under the procedure referred to
4. Where the customs service decides to examine the goods, the examination shall be effected on the basis of the information in the records of the
person concerned .
5. The declaration relating to the goods which are the subject of the authorization referred to in paragraph 1 must be presented at the customs office designated for that purpose within the period fixed by
the competent authorities. Such period may not exceed one month from the date of entry of the goods in the records of the person concerned.
For purposes of Article 10 this declaration shall take effect on the
date of the entry of the said goods in the records of the person concerned .
6. The authorization to use the simplified procedure provided for in this Article shall be granted only to those persons able to provide all guarantees deemed necessary by the competent authorities. It may be restricted to certain goods and be revoked at any time.
7. The provisions of paragraphs 6, 8 and 9 of Article 19 shall also apply where there is recourse to the provisions of this Afticle.
8. The entry of the goods in the accounting records of the person concerned in accordance with paragraph 2 (b) may be replaced by any such other similar formality offering analogous guarantees as may be specified under the procedure referred to in Article 21(2).
1. The Customs General Brocedures Committee provided for in Article
of Council Directive of on the harmonization of procedures for the release of goods for free circulation (1) may examine all matters relating to the application of this Directive as are out to it by its chairman, whether on his own initiative or at
the request of the representative of a Member State.
2. The provisions necessary for the application of Article 3, Articles 5 to 7, Article 8 (1)(4) and (5), Article 9 C1) and Articles 18 to 20
of this Directive shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 27 (2) and (3) of Directive ....
1 . The Member States shall bring into force the measures necessary to comply with this Directive not later than 1 January 1981.
2. Each Member State shall inform the Commission of the provisions which it makes for the application of this Directive.
The Commission shall communicate this information to the other Member States .
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
Done at Brussels, For the Council
