 Fiche financière
l' offre .
( Memo from TUGENDHAT )
The organization of the meetings of the Contact Committee referred to in Article 25 of the proposal for a Directive could give rise to certain expenses. However, it is not possible to make a precise estimate of these expenses at the present time, which should not be high, since neither the frequency of the meetings nor the number of Committee members have yet been decided. In any event, this proposal will not give rise to any expenses in the 1981 budgetary year .
 The present proposal represents an essential complement to Council Directive 80/390/EEC of 17 March 1980 coordinating the requirements for the drawing up, scrutiny and distribution of the listing particulars to be publi­ shed for the admission of securities to official stock exchange listing (1). The present proposal provides for analogous information to that required by Directive 80/390/EEC to be published when non-listed securities are offered for sale or subscription to the public. '
As in the case of the Directive 80/390/EEC this proposal provides that the information to be published is minimum information/ and that the Member States are to designate competent national authorities responsible for carrying -out certain functions under the Directive, and in particular that of approving the prospectus prior to its publication.
(1) OJ N° L100 of 17/4/1980
 Proposal for a Council Directive coordinating the requirements for the drawing up, scrutiny and
distribution of the prospectus to be published when securities are offered for subscription or sale to the public
(Memo from Mr TUGENDHAT)
This proposal is the logical follow-up to Directive 80 / 390 / EEC of
March 1980 ( 1 ) coordinating the requirements for the drawing up , scrutiny
and distribution of the listing particulars to be published for the admission
of securities to official stock exchange Listing. It is designed to coordinate at Community levels the information to be published when non-listed securities are offered for subscription or sale to the public . Its importance lies in
the fact that even where securities are ultimately listed on a stock exchange
in one of the Member States, the moment of their offer for sale or subscrip­ tion to the public often precedes stock exchange listing, and investors should accordingly be in possession of an adequate prospectus at this earlier stage .
The present text follows closely that of Directive 80/390/EEC, but appro­ priate modifications have been made to take account of the fact that the prospectus is to be published on the occasion of an offer for subscription
or sale of securities to the public rather than on the admission of securities to official stock exchange listing .
2. One of the objectives of the proposal is to provide a consistent degree of investor protection throughout the Community when securities, whether or not subsequently listed on a stock exchange , - are offered for subscription or sale ta the public . The present position is very uneven as between one Member State and another . In some Member States ( the U.K. , Ireland , France , Luxembourg , Belgium) a prospectus is currently required to be published on the offer of securities to the public, whereas in the other Member States no prospectus
/ is required. Even as between those Member States where a prospectus is required to be published, there is a difference between those Member States which require the prospectus to be approved by the competent authorities prior to its publication (France, Luxembourg, Belgium), and those that do not (the U.K., Ireland). The present proposal will bring standards of ^investor protection into line throughout the Community by requiring
(1) O.J. No. L 100 of 17.4.1980
prospectuses to be published in all the Member Utates, containing standard
information, and by requiring the prior approval of the competent authorities to be given.
3. The Directive will also have a valuable contribution to make towards
the creation of a European Securities Market. Although in some Member States
(the U.K., Ireland, France, the Netherlands) the official stock exchange constitutes the central market, there are still a number of public offers
of securities that take place away from the official stock exchange in these countries . The number of such public offers is even larger in those countries ( e.g.\Italy ) where the official stock exchange does not represent the central market . In coordinating the information that has to be made /avai lable on
the occasion of public offers of unlisted securities, the Directive will make a significant contribution to' the proper functioning of this sector of securities markets in the various Member States. As it is easier to achieve
interpenetration of markets which are all functioning properly and in a comparable way, the Directive will therefore have a positive effect on the process of interpenetration .
4. The proposal has been given a detailed examination • by a Commission working group and has also been the subject pf consultation with European Federations in the financial field, which have expressed themselves to be ' in'favour of the proposal . It is noteworthy that those countries which do
not at the moment have a requirement to publish a prospectus, still less
a requirement to Jiave^it approved prior to publication, are in favour of
the proposal (Italy, Germany). Other countries (the U.K., Ireland) are
less enthusiastic, although the impact on their domestic legislation would appear to be slight (most public offers in those countries are made
through the stock exchange).
5.There was considerable discussion in the working group on the scope of application of the Directive. Some delegations (the U.K., Ireland, Denmark
Germany) were in favour of a limited scope, whereby only offers made by or ! behalf of the issuer would be covered . Other delegations ( Italy , France , Luxembourg , the Netherlands , Belgium ) preferred a wide scope , whereby the Directive would also cover offers made by persons other than the issuer
( e.g. a major shareholder ). The solution finally adopted was to provide for a wide scope of application, while authorizing Member States to
allow the competent authorities to exempt persons other than the issuer or a person acting on his behalf from the requirement to publish a pros­ pectus .
6. In view of the valuable contribution that the Directive will make both to investor protection within the Community and to the development of a European securities market, it is proposed that the Commission approve the proposal for a Directive and transmit it to the Council.
(Transmitted by the Commission to the Council)
 Proposal for a Directive coordinating the requirements for the drawing up, scrutiny and distribution of the prospectus to be published when securities are offered for subscription or sale to the public
Investment in securities involves risk, like any other form of investment. The Commission considers that the best way of ensuring an adequate degree of investor protection in the face of such risk is to require appropriate information to be given to investors concerning secu­ rities and the issuers of securities. In this way, investors can be put
in a position to take investment decisions in full knowledge of the facts, and can themselves make an accurate assessment of the risks involved.
Further, the provision of adequate and timely information is likely to increase investor confidence in securities markets, and the smooth and efficient functioning of such markets will be encouraged as a result.
An important step in the Community's information policy was taken
with the adoption by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 1980 of Directive 80/390/EEC C1) coordinating the requirements for the drawing up, scrutiny
and distribution of the listing particulars to be published for the admission of securities to official stock exchange listing ("the Listing Particulars Directive "). In addition , the Directive coordinating conditions of admission to official stock exchange listing (79/279/EEC) (2) contains provisions relating to information to be published by issuers whose securities are admitted to official listing, in particular on the happening of exceptional events likely to have a significant effect on stock exchange prices. A further Directive is at present being discussed in a Working Party in the Council of Ministers, relating to information to be published on a regular basis by companies whose shares are admitted to official listing (3).
(1) O.J. N° L100 of 17/4/1980 (2) O.J. N° L 66 of 16/3/1979 (3) O.J. N° C 29 of 1/2/1979
 The Commission considers, however/ that an adequate information policy should not be limited to securities which are admitted to official listing. The effective protection of investors requires that information be given concerning securities and their .issuers at the momeint when the securities are first offered for subscription or sale to the public, whether or not
the securities are subsequently admitted to official stock exchange listing. This is the aim of the present proposal.
Even in those Member States in which the market provided by the official stock exchange is the central market, a number of public offers take place
-outside the stock exchange, and investors do not therefore have the benefit of the safeguards which are associated with admission to official stock exchange listing. The present proposal for a Directive is designed to provide that equivalent information be given to them in such circumstances* This
need is all the greater in those countries where the stock exchange is not the central market, and in which a substantial number or even the majority of public offers take place outside the stock exchange.
The interpenetration of national securities markets within the Community
is an essential prerequisite for the creation of a common capital market.
For such interpenetration to take place, such markets must all function . properly , and provide equivalent safeguards for investors . At the present
time, however, standards of investor protection on the occasion of a public offer of securities are not equivalent throughout the Community. Only five Member States (France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom and Ireland) require a prospectus to be published on the occasion of an offer of securities to the public and the information required to be given is of course different. In coordinating requirements in the Member States relating to the drawing up, scrutiny and distribution of the prospectus, the Directive will make safeguards available to investors equivalent throughout the Community. This in turn
will contribute to the proper functioning of securities markets, and therefore to the process of interpenetration .
Interpenetration will be further encouraged by the Directive insofar
as issuers will be more likely to offer their securities to the public in
more than one Member State once the content of the information to be contained in the prospectus has been coordinated on a Community-wide basis. Offers of securities on a cross-border basis within the Community would be impeded
by widely differing prospectus requirements from one Member State to the
next. The Directive should therefore have a positive effect on the volume
of such offers .
If Community rules relating to investor protection and information have to be observed only by issuers whose securities are admitted to official
listing, a position of discrimination would arise as between issuers whose securities were listed on the one hand and not listed on the other, this could result in many issuers preferring not to apply for their securities to be admitted to listing. Such a development would be contrary to the Commission 's policy of encouraging issuers to apply for the admission of
their securities to the market provided by the official stock exchange, which represents the best safeguard for the interests of investors.
On the contrary, the coordination of the public offer prospectus should make it easier for issuers to apply for stock exchange listing , for their securities. This is in view of the fact that under the provisions of the Listing Particulars Directive, the public offer prospectus can be used for the purpose of admission to the stock exchange, if it contains equivalent information to that required by that Directive, and providing that admission takes place within the twelve months following the public offer. The present proposal for a Directive will therefore make it easier for an issuer which has offered its securities to the public to apply for their admission to official stock exchange listing .
As regards the scope of the proposal for a Directive, only non-listed securities are to be covered , as the . prospectus to be published concerning listed securities is dealt with by the Listing Particulars Directive. The present proposal for a Directive imposes the obligation to publish a prospectus not only on the "classical" occasion of an issuer offering its securities for subscription to the public, whether directly or by means of a financial inter­ mediary acting on its behalf, but also where offers of sale are made by shareholders (Article 1 (1)). The scope is therefore wide,! but the Directive
 authorizes the competent authorities -to exercise a certain power of discration to take account of individual cases . Thus / Article 7 ( 1 ) allows the competent authorities to give partial or complete dispensations from the obligation to publish a prospectus where offers for sale are made by thi,rd parties (other than financial intermediaries) who are independent of the issuer (the most likely case would be an offer made by a major shareholder).
, The Directive provides for no precise definition of a "public offer"/ but states that there shall in any event be considered to be a public offer where the offer is "not addressed exclusively to a restricted circle of persons", (Article 1 (2) first' paragraph). The Member States are required
to define " restricted circle of persons " in accordance with certain non-limi-
tative criteria (Article 1 (2) second paragraph).
The detailed content of the information to be published is contained in the three Schedules, which relate respectively to shares, debt securities, and certificates representing shares. Such information is analogous to that contained in the Listing Particulars Directive, with suitable adaptation being made to take account of the difference in circumstances.
As the information required under the Schedules is very detailed in
nature, only the issuer of the securities or a person acting on his behalf 1 would in general be in a position to provide it. Accordingly, Article 8 (2) provides for the possibility of exemption from publishing certain information where a public offer for sale is made by e.g. a financial intermediary acting independently of the company, or by a shareholder, and where the person in question would not normally be in a position to give such information.
Articles 9 to 16 contain various possibi lities of adaptation according to the particular nature of the public offer or of the issuer in question, and reflect similar provisions in the Listing Particulars Directive.
Articles 17 to 22 set out rules for the scrutiny and publication of the ι
prospectus. In Article 17 (2) it is stated that no prospectus may be published unless it has first been approved by the competent authorities.
 There is provision for cooperation between the competent authorities in
the case of public offers affecting more than one Member State (Article 23),
with a view to establishing, as far as possible, a common text for the prospectus to be published in each such Member State.
Finally, Article 25 provides that the Contact Committee set up under Directive 79/279/EEC shall also be the Contact Committee for the purposes of the present Directive and that it shall have similar functions.
Community, and
Proposal, for a Directive coordinating the requirements for the drawing up/ scrutiny
and distribution of the prospectus to be published when securities are offered for
subscription or sale to. the public
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic
in particular Articles 54 (3)(g> and 100 thereof, \
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas investment in securities, like any other form of involves risks , and the protection of investors requires that
they be put in a position to make a correct assessment of such risks so as \ to be able to take investment decisions in -full knowledge of the facts;
Whereas the provision of adequate and complete information
concerning securities and the issuers of securities promotes the protection
of investors by allowing the latter to evaluate the risks undertaken and to
take decisions on their own responsibility ; \
Whereas , moreover , such information represents an effective means of reinforcing confidence in securities and thus contributes
to the correct functioning of securities markets and to encouraging their development ; >
v Whereas it is accordingly appropriate to establish an infor­ mation policy relating to securities at Community level, and whereas such an information policy/ by virtue of the safeguards that it provides to investors and its impact on the correct functioning of securities markets, is of such
a nature as to promote the. interpenetration of national securities markets and thus to contribute to the creation of a genuine European capital market;
 whereas the Council Directive 80/390/EEC of 17 March 1980 coordinating the requirements for the drawing up, scrutiny and distribution of the Listing particulars to be published for the admission of securities
to of f i cia I stock exchange listing ( 1 ) represents an important step in the implementation of such an information policy at Community level; whereas
that Directive coordinates the information to be published when securities are admitted to stock exchange listing concerning the securities offered
and the issuers of such securities, so as to allow investors to make an infor­ med assessment of the assets and liabilities , financial position , profits
and losses and prospects of the issuer and of the rights attaching to such
Whereas such an information policy also requires that when securities are offered for subscription or sale to the public, whether or
not they are subsequently admitted to stock exchange listing, similar infor- mation-should be made available to investors in the form of a prospectus; whereas a coordination of the content of this prospectus is also required
in order to achieve equivalence with safeguards , avai lable to investors in
the various Member States and to encourage the interpenetration of national securities markets; whereas such coordination is all the more necessary in view of the fact that the public offer prospectus can also be used, in accor­ dance with the conditions laid down by Council Directive 80/390/EEC, as stock exchange listing particulars if it contains equivalent information to that required by that Directive; whereas it is therefore appropriate to simplify the task of issuers which subsequently apply for the admission of their securities to a Community stock exchange, and to ensure that the content
of the public offer prospectus should be equivalent to that of the listing particulars in all the Member States ;
Whereas such coordination' must apply to securities independen­ tly of the legal status of the issuing undertaking, and accordingly, in so far as this Directive applies to entities to which no reference is made in the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Treaty and goes beyond the scope
of Article 54 (3)(g),-it must be based also on Article 100;
1. This Directive shall apply to securities which are offered for subscription or sale to the public within a Member State provided that the securities are not admitted to official listing on a stock exchange situa­ ted or operating in that Member State.
2 . . For the purposes of applying this Directive , securities shall be considered to be offered for subscription or sale to the public where the offer is not addressed exclusively to a restricted circle of persons.
The Member States shall determine what is meant by "restricted circle of persons" having regard to the number of persons to whom the offer is addressed and , if appropriate , having regard also to their nature , to the amount of the offer, and to the means of publicity used for making the offer .
This Directive shall not apply to :
(a) units issued by collective investment undertakings other than the closed-end type ; or
(b) securities issued by a State or by its regional or local authorities ; or
(c) securities issued in connection with a takeover offer; or
(d) securities issued in connection with a merger involving the acquisition of another company or the formation of a new company, the division of company, the transfer of all or part of an undertaking's assets and liabilities or as con­ sideration for the transfer of assets other than cash; or
(e) shares allotted free of charge to holders of shares; or
( f ) shares issued in substitution for shares if the issuing of such new shares does not involve any increase in the com­ pany 's issued share capital ; or
(g) shares allotted directly or indirectly to employees or to Trustees holding them on behalf of employees.
For the purposes of applying this Directive :
( a ) " collective investment undertakings other than the closed- end type" shall mean unit trusts and investment companies :
- the object of which is the collective investment of capi­ tal provided by the public, and which operate on the prin­ ciple of risk spreading ; and
~ t"e ur,its of which are, at the holders' request, purchased or redeemed, directly or indirectly, out of the assets of
these undertakings. Action taken by such undertakings to ensure that the stock exchange value of their units does , not significantly vary from their pet asset value shall
be regarded as equivalent to such repurchase or redemption;
"units of a collective investment undertaking" shall mean securities issued by a collective investment undertaking asv representing the rights of participants in the assets of such an undertaking; - " ■ '
" issuers " shall mean companies and other legal persons and
any undertakings whose securities are offered for subscription or sale to the public;
(d) net turnover" shall comprise the amounts derived from the sale of products and the provision of services falling within the undertaking's ordinary activities, after deduction of
, sales rebates and of value added tax and other taxes linked , directly to the turnover;
"credit institution" shall mean an undertaking whose business is to receive deposits or other repayable funds from the public and to grant credits for its own account;
"particpating interests" shall mean rights in the capital
of other undertakings, whether or not represented by certi­ ficates , which , by creating a durable link with those under­ takings, are intended to contribute to the activities of the undertaking which holds these rights ;
"annual accounts" shall comprise the balance sheet, the profit and loss account and the notes on the accounts. These documents shall constitute a composite whole. . ,
Member States shall ensure that an offer for subscription or sale of securities to the public within their territories is conditional upon the publi­ cation of a prospectus .
The obligation to publish is incumbent upon the person making the public offer or on whose behalf the public offer is made.
1 . The prospectus shall contain the information which , according to the particular nature of the issuer of securities offered for subscription
or sale to the public, and particulars of these securities, is necessary to enable investors and their investment advisers to make an informed assessment
of the assets and liabilities , financial position , profits and losses , and prospects of the issuer and of the rights attaching to the securities.
2. Member States shall ensure that the obligation to supply the infor­ mation referred to in paragraph 1 is incumbent upon the persons responsible
for the prospectus as provided for in heading 1.1 of Schedules A and B annexed hereto .
1. Without prejudice to the obligation referred to in Article 5, Member States shall ensure that, subject to the possibilites for exemptions provided for in Articles 7 and 8, prospectuses contain, in as easily analysable and comprehensible, a form as possible, at least the items of information provided for in Schedules A,B or C, depending on whether shares, debt securities or certificates representing shares are involved .
2. In the specific cases covered by Articles 9 to 16 the prospectus is to be drawn up in accordance with the specifications given in those Articles, subject to the possibilities for exemptions provided for in Articles 7 and 8.
3. Where certain headings in SchedulesA,B and C appear inappropriate to the issuer's sphere of activity or legal form, a prospectus giving equi^- valent information shall be drawn up by adapting these headings.^
Member States may allow the authorities responsible for checking the prospectus within the meaning of this Directive (hereinafter referred
to as "the competent authorities") to provide for partial or complete exemp­ tion from the obligation to publish a prospectus in the following cases :
1) where the securities are not offered by the issuer or by financial intermediaries ;
2) wh4re the securities offered are :
( a ) shares resulting from the conversion of convertible debt securities or shares created after an exchange for exchan­ geable debt securities ; or
(b) shares resulting from the exercise of the rights conferred by warrants ;
and, where appropriate, the information provided for in Chapter 2 of Schedule A iss published in accordance with Article 19 and Article 20 <1);
3) where the securities offered are :
shares of which either the number or the nominal value or ,
in the absence of a nominal value , the accounting par value , amounts to less than 10 % of the number or of the correspon­ ding value of shares of the same class as have already been offered to the public in the Member State where the offer is made, and of which the nominal value, or in the absence of a nominal value , the accounting par value , is in any event less than 25,000 U.A. ;
 (b) debt securities issued by companies and other Legal persons which are nationals of a Member State and which
- in carrying on their business, benefit from State monopolies, and '
- are set up or governed by a special law or pursuant to such a law or whose borrowings are unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed by a Member State or one of a Member State's federated States ; or
debt securities issued by legal persons , other than companies , which are nationals of a Member State and
- are set up by special law, and ,
- the activities of which are governed by that law and consist
solely in :
debt securities , and
f through the issue of
State , and
- the debt decurities of which are, for the purposes of admission to official listing, considered as debt securities issued
or guaranteed by the State ; or
means of
they have raised and resources provided by a Member
(d) supplementary certificates representing shares issued in exchan­ ge for the original securities, where the issuing of such new certificates has not brought about any increase in the company's issued share capital, provided that a document which the competent authorities consider to contain equivalent information to that contained in the prospectus required by this Directive and re­ lating to the certificates representing such shares has already been published in the same Member State as that in which the
offer to the public is made; -
and where in all the cases referred to in the points mentioned above informa­ tion concerning the number and type of securities to be offered and the circum­ stances in which such securities have been issued has been published in accor­ dance with Article 19 and Article 20 (1).
the resources which
1 ■ The competent authorities may authorize omission from the prospectus of certain information provided for by this Directive if they consider that :
(a) such information is of minor importance only and is not such as will influence assessment of the assets and liabilities, financial position, profits and losses and prospects of the issuer, or
(b) disclosure of such information would be contrary to the public interest or seriously detrimental to the issuer, provided that, in the latter case, such omission would not be likely to mislead the public with regard to facts and circumstances, knowledge
of which is essential for the assessment of the securities in question .
2. Where the person making the offer is a person other than the issuer
or a person acting on his_behalf, the competent authorities may authorize omission from the prospectus of certain information which would not normally be in his possession . , '
Contents of the prospectus in certain specific cases 1 Article 9
and 3.2.9,
Where the offer relates to shares offered to shareholders of the
issuer on a preemptive basis, the competent authorities may provide that the prospectus shall contain only the information provided for by Schedule A :
 that
provided for in Schedule C :
Chapter 1, headings 1.1, 1.3, 1.4, 1.6 and 1.8, and Chapter 2 .
- in Chapter 4, headings 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.7.1, and 4.7.2,
- in Chapter 5, headings 5.1.4, 5.1.5, and 5.5,
- in Chapter 6, headings 6.1, 6.2.0, 6.2.1, 6.2.2, 6.2.3, and
Where the shares referred to in the first subparagraph are represen­ ted by certificates , the prospectus shall contain , at least , subject to Article 15 (2) and (3), in addition to the information mentioned in that subparagraph,
Where the offer relates to convertible debt securities, exchangeable securities or debt securities with warrants whi ch are offered on a pre-emptive
basis to the shareholders of the issuer, the competent authorities may provide that the prospectus shall contain only :
- information concerning the nature of the shares offered by way of conversion, exchange or subscription and the rights attaching thereto ;
- the information provided for in Schedule A and mentioned above in the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, except for that provided for in Chapter 2 of that Schedule ;
- the information provided for in Chapter 2 of Schedule B; and
- the conditions of and procedures for conversion, exchange and subscription and the situations in which they may be amended.
3. The annual accounts for the latest financial year must be published
and be made permanently available to the public in the same way as the prospectus referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2.
4 . Where the issuer prepares both own and consolidated annual accounts , both sets of accounts must be published and be made permanently available
to the public. However, the competent authorities may allow the issuer to publish and make permanently available to the public either the own or the consolidated accounts alone, provided that the accounts not published and
made permanently available to the public furnish no material additional information.
1- Where the offer relates to debt securities which are neither conver­ tible, exchangeable, nor accompanied by warrants and are issued by an under- ' taking which has securitiesjlisted on a stock exchange situated or operating
in the Member State where the offer /is made, the competent authorities may provide that the prospectus shall contain only the information provided for
headings 3.1.0, 3,1.5, 3.2.0, and 3.2.2, heading 4.3,
headings 5.1.2, 5.1.3, 5.1.4 and 5.4, and
2. The annual accounts for the latest financial^year must be published
and be made permanently available to the public in the same way as the prospectus referred to in paragraph 1 -. t
3 . x Where the issuer prepares both own and consolidated annual accounts , both sets of accounts must be published and be made permanently available to
the public. However, the competent authorities may allow the issuer to publish 1 and make permanently available to the public either the own or the consolidated
accounts alone, provided that the accounts not published and made permanently-
available to the public furnish no material additional "information . *
1. Where the offer relates to securities issued by financial institu­ tions , the prospectus^ must contain :
at least the information specified in Chapters 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 of Schedules A or 6, according to whether the issue is of shares or debt securities, and
information adapted, in accordance with the rules laid for that purpose
by national law or by the competent authorities, to the particular nature of the issuer of the securities in question and at least equivalent to that specified in Chapters 4 and 7 of Schedules A or B.
Member States shall determine the financial institutions to be cove­ red by this Article .
3. The arrangements laid down by this Article may be extended to :
- collective investment undertakings whose units are not excluded from the scope of this Directive by Article 2 (a),
- finance companies engaging in no activity other than raising capital to make it available to their parent company or to undertakings affiliated to that company , and
- companies holding portfolios of securities, licences or patents and engaging in no activity other than the management of such portfolios.
1. Where the offer relates to debt securities issued in a continuous
or repeated manner by credit institutions which regularly publish their annual accounts and which, within the Community, are set up or governed by a special
law, or pursuant to such a law, or are subject to public supervision designed to protect savings, the Member States may provide that the prospectus shall contain only :
- the. information provided for in heading 1.1 and Chapter 2 of Schedule B, and
- information concerning any events of importance for the assessment of the securities in question which have occurred since the end of the financial year in respect of which the Last annual accounts were published. Such accounts must be made available to the public at - the - issuer 's offices and at those of the financial organizations retained to act as the latter's paying agents.
1 . Where the offer relates to debt securities guaranteed by d legal person , the prospectus must include : -
- with respect to the issuer, the information provided for in Schedule B, and
- with respect to the guarantor, the information provided for in heading 1.3 and Chapters 3 to 7 of that Schedule.
Where the issuer or guarantor is a financial institution, the part of the prospectus relating to that financial institution shall be drawn up in accordance with Article 11 .
2. When the issuer of the guaranteed debt securities is a finance company within the meaning of Article 11 the prospectus must include :
- with respect to'the issuer, the information provided for in Chapters 1, 2 and 3 and in headings 5.1.0 to 5.1.5 and 6.1 of Schedule 8, and
- with respect to the guarantor, that provided for in heading 1.3 and Chapters 3 to 7 of that Schedule.
3 . Where there is more than one guarantor , the information specified shall be required of each one; however, the competent authorities may allow abridgement of this information with a view to achieving greater comprehensi­
bility of the pro^>ectus. juat
Where the debt securities referred to in paragraph 1 are issued
at very short /intervals, the Member States may provide that the prospectus shall only contain information on the characteristics of such debt securities
4 . The guarantee contract must , in the cases referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, be made available for inspection by the public at the offices of the issuer and at those of the financial organizations retained to act as the latter's paying agents. Copies of the contract shall be provided to any person concerned on request .
1 . Where the offer relates to convertible debt securities , exchangeable debt securities or debt securities with warrants, the prospectus must include :
information concerning the nature of the shares offered by way of conversion, exchange or subscription , and the rights attaching thereto ,
the information provided for in heading .1.3 and Chapters 3 to 7 of Schedule A, the information provided for in Chapter 2 of Schedule B, and
the conditions of and procedures for conversion, exchange or subscription and details of the situations in which they may be amended.
2 . When the issuer of the convertible debt securities , the exchangeable debt securities or the debt securities with warrants is not the issuer of the
shares , the prospectus must include :
- information concerning the nature of the shares offered by way of conversion, exchange or subscription and the rights attaching thereto, and
- in respect of the issuer of the securities, the information provided for in Schedule B, »
- in respect of the issuer of the shares, that provided for in heading 1.3 and Chapters 3 to 7 of Schedule A, and
- the conditions of and procedures for conversion, exchange or subscription and details of the situations in which they may be amended.
However, where the issuer of the debt securities is a finance company within the meaning of Article 11 (3)r the prospectus need contain, in relation to that company, only the information provided for in Chapters 1, 2 and 3 and headings 5.1.0 to 5.1.5 and 6.1 of Schedule B.
1 . Where prospectus must for in Schedule provided for in
the offer relates to certificates representing shares, the contain the information , as regards certificates , provided C and the information, as regards the shares represented, Schedule A.
2 . However , the competent authorities may relieve the issuer of the certificates of the requirement to publish details of its own financial position , when the issuer is : . -
- a credit institution which is a national of a Member State'and is set up or governed by a special law or pursuant to such law or is subject to public supervision designed to protect savings, or -
- a subsidiary 95 % or'more, of which is owned by a credit institution within
the meaning of the preceding indent, the commitments of which towards the
holders of certificates are unconditionally guaranteed by that credit
institution and which is subject, de jure or de facto, to the same super­ •..■-\■
- an "Admini stratiekantoor" in the Netherlands governed, for the safe custody of the original securities, by special regulations laid down by the compe­ tent authorities .
3. In the case of certificates issued by a securities transfer organi­ zation or by an auxiliary institution set up by such organization, the compe­ tent authorities may dispense with the publication of the information provided for in Chapter 1 of Schedule C.
1 . Where the offer relates to debt securities which benefit ,
both repayment of the loan and the payment of interest, from the unconditional and irrevocable guarantee of a State or of one of a State's federated States,
 that this
Directive is applied .
No prospectus may be published until it has been approved by the authorities .
national Legislation or the competent authorities may authorize the abridge­ ment of the information provided for in Chapters 3 and 5 of Schedule B.
2. The possibility of abridgement provided for in paragraph 1 may also be applied to companies set up or governed by a special law or pursuant to such law which have the power to levy charges on their consumers.
Arrangements for the scrutiny and publication of the prospectus Article 17
1 . Member States shall appoint one or more competent authorities and shall notify the Commission of the appointments of such authorities, giving details of any division of powers among them. Member States shall also ensure
The competent authorities shall approve the publication of the prospectus only if they are of the opinion that it satisfies all the requi­ rements set out in this Directive .
Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities have the powers necessary for them to carry out their task.
4. This Directive shall not affect the competent authorities' liability, which shall continue to be governed solely by the national law.
The competent authorities shall decide whether to accept the audit report of the official auditor provided for in heading 1.3 of Schedules A and B or , if necessary , to require an additional report .
 The requirement for the additional report must be the outcome of an examination of each case on its merits. At the request of the official auditor and / or of the issuer , the competent authorities must disclose to
them the reasons justifying this
The prospectus must be published and be made permanently available to the public in accordance with conditions laid down by the Member State in which the offer to the public is made.
1. The prospectus must be published no later than the time of opening of the offer .
Moreover, where the offer is preceded by trading of the pre-emptive subscription rights, the prospectus must be published within a reasonable period, to be laid down by the competent authorities, before such trading starts . '
2 . In exceptional , properly justified cases , the competent authorities
may allow the postponement of the publication of the prospectus until after the date of the opening of trading in preemptive subscription rights.
Where a prospectus is, or will be, published in accordance with Articles 1 and 4, the notices, bills, posters and documents announcing the offer and indicating the. essential characteristics of the securities, and all other documents relating to the offer and intended for publication by or on behalf of the person responsible for the prospectus, must first be communicated to the competent authorities.. The latter shall decide whether they should be submitted to scrutiny before publication. '
The above-mentioned documents and also the application form must state that the prospectus exists and indicate where it is being, or will be published in accordance with Article 19 .
Every significant new factor capable of affecting assessment of the securities which arises between the time when the prospectus is adopted and the time when the offer is closed shall be covered by a supplement to the prospectus, scrutinized in the same wa/as the latter and published in accor­ dance with procedures to be laid down by the competent authorities.
Co-operation between the Member States Article 23
1 . Where offers , of the same securities are made simultaneously , or within short intervals of one another within several Member States, the compe­ tent authorities shall exchange information and use their best endeavours to achieve maximum co-ordination of their requirements concerning the prospectus, to avoid a multiplicity of formalities and to agree to a single text requiring at the most translation, where appropriate, and the issue of supplements as
necessary to meet the individual requirements of each Member State concerned.
2. Where an offer is made in a Member State of securities which have been offered in another Member State less than six months previously, the > competent authorities of the former Member State shall contact the competent authorities of the latter and shall, as far as possible, exempt tfhe issuer
of those securities from the preparation of a new prospectus, subject to any need for updating, translation or the issue of supplements in accordance with the individual requirements of the Member State concerned.
1. Member States shall provide that all persons employed or formerly employed by the competent authorities shall be bound by professional secrecy. This means that any confidential information received in the course of their
duties may not be divulged to any person or authority except by virtue of provisions Laid down by Law.
2 . Paragraph 1 shall not / however / preclude the competent authorities of the various Member States from exchanging information as provided for in this Directive. Information thus exchanged shall be covered by the obligation of professional secrecy to which the persons employed or formerly, employed
by the competent authorities receiving the information are subject. / SECTION V
1 . The Contact Committee set up by Article 20 of Council Directive y9/279/EEC of 5 March 1979 co-ordinating the conditions for the admission of
securities^ to official stock exchange listing (1)/ shall also have as its function :
a) without prejudice to Articles 169 and 170 of the EEC Treaty to facilitate the harmonized implementation of this Directive through regular consulta­ tions on any practical problems arising from its application on which exchanges of views are deemed useful ; i
b) to facilitate consultation between the Member States on the supplements and improvements to the prospectus which the competent authorities are entitled to require or recommend at national level;
c) to advise the Commission / if necessary / on any additions or amendments
to be made to this Directive or on any adaptation to be made in accordance with Article 26. ,
2. It shall not be the function of the Contact Committee to appraise the merits of decisions taken by the competent authorities in individual cases
1 . For the purpose of adjusting / in the Light of economic requirements , the amount deferred to in Article 7 (3) (a), the Commission shall submit to
the Committee a draft of the measures to be taken. The Committee shall deliver its opinion within the period laid down by its chairman. Its decisions shall require 41 votes in favour, the votes of the Member States being weighted
as provided for in Article 148 (2) of the Treaty.
2. When the Committee has delivered an opinion in favour of the draft of the measures envisaged by the Commission the latter shall adopt them.
Where the opinion of the Committee is not in accordance with the draft of the measures envisaged by the Commission or where the Committee
has not delivered an opinion within the required period, the Commission shall without delay lay before the Council, which shall act by qualified majority, a proposal concerning the measures to be taken.
Where the Council fails to act on the proposal within three months of irs receipt, the measures proposed shall be adopted by the Commission.
Final provisions Article 27
1. Member States shall take the measures necessary to comply with this Directive on or before They shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof .
As from the notification of this Directive , the Member States shall
communicate to the Commission the texts of the main laws, regulations and
administrative provisions which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive .
This Directive is addressed to the Member States .
For the Counci I The President
Chapter 1 - Information concerning those responsible for the prospectus and the auditing of accounts
Name and function of natural persons and name and registered office
of legal persons responsible for the prospectus or, as the case may be, for certain parts of it, with, in the latter case, and indication of those parts . '
Declaration by those responsible referred to in heading 1.1 that , to the best of their knowledge, the information given in that part of the prospectus for which they are responsible is in accordance with the facts and contains no omissions likely to affect the import of the prospectus .
Names, addresses and qualifications of the official auditors who have
audited the company's annual accounts for the preceding three financial
years in accordance with national law . *.
Statement that the annual accounts have been audited. If audit reports on the annual accounts have been refused by the official auditors or
if they contain qualifications, such refusal or such qualifications shall be reproduced in full and the reasons given.
Indication of other information in the prospectus which has been audited by the auditors .
Chapter 2 - Information concerning the offer for subscription or sale to the public and the shares being offered
2.1. Information concerning the shares being offered for subscription or sale to the public :
2.1.0. Indication of the resolutions", authorizations and approvals by virtue of which the shares have been or will be created and/or issued.
Nature of the issue and amount thereof.
Number of shares which have been or will be created/or issued, if pre­ determined.
2.1.1. A concise description of the rights attaching to the shares, and in
particular the extent of the voting rights, entitlement to share in
the profits and to share in any surplus in the event of liquidation and any privileges.
Time-limit after which dividend entitlement lapses and indication of
the party in whose favour this entitlement operates. I
2.1.2. Tax on the income from the shares withheld at source in the country of origin and/or the country where the offer is made.
Indication as to whether the issuer assumes responsibility for the with holding of tax at source .
2.1.3. Arrangements for transfer of the shares and any restrictions on their free negotiability ( e.g. clause establishing approval requirement ).
2.1.4. Date on which entitlement to dividends arises.
2.1.5. The stock exchanges where admission to official listing is or will be sought .
2.1.6. The financial organizations which are the paying agents of the issuer in the Member State where the offer takes place.
2.2 . Information concerning the issue of the shares being offered to the public :
2.2.0. Indication of the exercise of the right of pre-emption of shareholders or of the restriction or withdrawal of such right.
Indication , where applicable , of the reasons for restriction or with­
drawal of such right ; in such cases , justification of the issue price , where an issue is for cash; indication of the beneficiaries if the restriction or withdrawal of the right of pre-emption is intended to benefit specific persons .
2.2.1. The total amount of the issue and the number of shares offered, where ' applicable by category.
2.2.2. If the issue was or is being made
simultaneously on the markets of two or more States and if a tranche
has been or is being reserved for certain of these, indication of any such tranche .
2.2.3. The issue price or the offer or placing price, stating the nominal
value or, in its absence, the accounting par value or the amount to «•
be capitalized; the issue premium and the amount of any expenses specifically charged to the subscriber or purchaser.
The methods of payment of the price, particularly as regards the paying-up of shares which are not full / paid .
2.2.4. The procedure for the exercise of any right of pre-emption; the nego­ tiability of subscription rights; the treatment of subscription rights
not exercised .
2.2.5. Period of the opening of the subscription for shares, and names of the organizations responsible for receiving the public's subscriptions.
2.2.6. Methods of and time-limits for delivery of the shares, possible creation of provisional certificates.
Names, addresses and description of the natural or legal persons under­ writing or guaranteeing the issue for the issuer. Where not all of the
issue is underwritten or guaranteed, a statement of the portion not covered .
Indication or estimate of the overall amount and/or of the amount per share of the changes relating to the issue operation, stating the total
remuneration of the financial intermediaries, including the underwriting commission or margin, guarantee commission, pl'acing commission or selling agent's commission.
Net proceeds accruing to the issuer from the issue and intended appli­ cation of such proceeds, e.g., to finance the investment programme or to strengthen the issuer's financial position.
Information concerning the offer for subscription or sale to the public :
Description of the shares being offered, and in particular the number of shares and nominal value per share, or, in the absence of nominal value, the accounting par value or the total nominal value, the exact designation or class, and coupons attached.
If shares of the same class are already listed on one or more stock exchanges, indication of these stock exchanges.
If shares of the same class have not been admitted to official listing . but are dealt in on one or more other markets which are subject to re­
gulation, are in regular operation and are recognized and open, indica­ tion of such markets .
Indication of any of the following .which have occurred during the last financial year and the current financial year: ,
- public takeover offers by third parties in respect of the issuer's shares -
- public takeover offers by the issuer in respect of other companies' shares .
The price or exchange terms attaching to such offers and the outcome thereof are to be stated . "
If , simultaneously or almost simultaneously with the creation of the
shares being offered, shares of the same class are subscribed for or placed privately or if shares of other classes are created for public or private placing, details are to be given of the nature of such operations and of the number and characteristics of the shares to which they relate.
Chapter 3 - General information about the issuer and its capital
General information about the issuer :
Name, registered office and principal administrative establishment if different from the registered office.
Date of incorporation and the length of life of the issuer, except where indefinite .
Legislation Under which the issuer operates and legal form which it has adopted under that legislation .
Indication of the issuer's objects and reference to the clause of the memorandum of association in which they are described.
Indication of.the register and of the entry number therein.
Indication of where the documents concerning the issuer which are re­ ferred to in the prospectus may be inspected.
General information about the capital :
3.2.0. The amount of the issued capital, the number and classes of the shares
of which it is composed with details of their principal characteristics; the part of the issued capital still to be paid up, with an indication of the number, or total nominal value, and the type of the shares not
, yet fully paid up, broken down where applicable according to the extent to which they have been paid up.
3.2.1. Where there is authorized but unissued capital or an undertaking to increase the capital, inter .alia in connection with convertible loans issued or subscription options granted, indication of:
. - the amount of such authorized capital or capital increase and, where appropriate, the duration of the authorization; N
- the categories of persons having preferential subscription rights for such additional portions of capital;
- the terms and- arrangements for the share issue corresponding to such portions .
3.2.2. If there are shares not representing capital, the number and main /-ν
characteristics of such shares are to be stated. : >
The amount of any convertible debt securities , exchangeable debt secu­ rities or debt securities with warrants, with an indication of the con­ ditions governing and the procedures for conversion, exchange or sub­ scription . - '
3.2.4. Conditions imposed by the memorandum and articles of association governing changes in the capital and in the respective rights of the various classes of shares, where such conditions are more stringent than is required by law.
Summary description of the operations during the three preceding years * which have changed the amount of the issued capital and/or the number and classes of shares of which it is composed.
As far as they are known to the issuer, indication of the natural or Legal persons who, directly or indirectly, severally or jointly, exer­ cise or could exercise control over the issuer, and particulars of the
proportion of the capital held giving a right to vote.
Joint control shall mean control exercised by more than one company or by more than one person having concluded an agreement which may lead to their adopting a common policy in respect of the issuer.
Insofar .as they are known to the issuer, indication of the shareholders who, directly or indirectly, hold a proportion of the issuer's capital which the Member States may not fix at more than 20 %.
If the issuer belongs to a group of undertakings, a brief description of the group and of the issuer 's position within it .
Number , book value and nominal .value or , in the absence of a nominal value, the accounting par value of any of its own shares which the issuer or another company in which it has a direct or indirect holding of more than 50 % has acquired and is holding, if such securities do not appear as a separate item on the balance sheet.
Chapter 4 - Information concerning the issuer's activities
4.1 . The issuer 's principal activities :
4.1.0 . Description of the issuer 's principal activities , stating the main categories of products sold and/or services performed.
Indication of any significant new products and/or activities.
4.1.1 . Breakdown of net turnover during the past three financial years by categories of activity and into geographical markets insofar as, taking account of the manner in which the sale of products and the provision
of services falling within the issuer's ordinary activities are organized, these categories and markets differ substantially from one another.
Location and size of the issuer 's principal establishments and summary information about real estate owned. Any establishment which accounts
for more than 10 % of turnover or production shall be considered a prin­ cipal establishment.- ■ ,
"Indication of the periods and main terms of concessions and the eco­ nomic conditions for working them . >
Indication of the progress of actual working.
For mining , extraction of hydrocarbons ,
insofar as significant, description of deposits, estimate of economi­ cally exploitable reserves and expected period of working.
4.1.4 . Where the information given pursuant to headings 4.1.0' to 4.1 .? has been influenced by exceptional factors, that fact should be mentioned..
4.2. , Summary information regarding the extent to which the issuer is depen­ dent , if at all , on patents or licences , industrial , commercial or finan­ cial contracts or new manufacturing processes, where such factors are 'of fundamental importance to the issuer 's business or profitability .
Information concerning policy on the research and development of new
products and processes over the past three financial years,, where signi- f i cant .
Information on any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have or have had a significant effect on the issuer's financial position in the recent past.
Information on any interruptions in the issuer's business which may have or have had a significant effect on the issuer's financial position in the recent past.
Average numbers employed and changes therein over the past three financial years, if such changes are material, with, if possible, a breakdown of persons employed by main categories of activity.
quarrying and similar activities
Description , with figures , of the main investments made , including interests such as shares , debt securities , etc ., in other undertakings over the past three financial years and the months already elapsed of the current financial year .
4.7.1 . Information concerning the principal investments being made with the exception of interests being acquired in other undertakings.
Distribution of these investments geographically (home and abroad). Method of financing ( internal or external ).
Information concerning the issuer 's principal future investments , with the exception of interests to be acquired in other undertakings on which its management bodies have already made firm commitments.
5 - Information concerning the issuer 's assets and liabilities , finan­ cial position and profits and losses
Accounts of the issuer :
5.1.0 . The last three balance sheets and profit and loss accounts drawn up . by the company set out as a comparative table. The notes on the annual accounts for the last financial year .
The draft prospectus must be filed with the competent authorities not more than 18 months after the end of the financial year to which the
last annual accounts published relate. The competent authorities may extend that period in exceptional cases. s
If the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts only , it shall
include those accounts in the prospectus in accordance with heading 5.1.0 .
If the issuer prepares both own and consolidated annual accounts, it
shall include both sets of accounts in the prospectus in accordance with heading 5.1.0 . However , the competent authorities may allow the issuer to include either the own or the consolidat'ed annual accounts, on con­ dition that the accounts which are not included do not provide any signi­ ficant additional information .
1.2. The profit or loss per share of the issuing company, for the financial year ,, ari sing out of the company 's ordinary activities , after tax , for the last three financial years, where the company includes its own annual accounts in the prospectus .
Where the issuer includes only consolidated annual accounts in the pro- , spectus, it shall indicate the consolidated profit or loss per share,
for the financial year, for the last three financial years. This infor­ mation shall appear in addition to that provided in accordance with the preceding subparagraph where the issuer also includes its own annual accounts in the prospectus .
If in the course of the above-mentioned period of three financial years
the number of shares in the issuing company has changed as a result,
for example, of an increase or decrease in capital or the re-arrangement
or splitting of shares, the profit or loss per share referred to in the first and second paragraph above shall be adjusted to make them comparable; in that event the adjustment formulae used shall be disclosed.
1.3. The amount of the dividend per share for the last three financial years, adjusted, if necessary, to make it comparable in accordance with the third subparagraph of heading 5.1.2 .
5.1.A. where more than nine months have elpsed since the end of the financial year to which the Last published own annual and/or consolidated annual accounts relate, an interim financial statement covering at least the first six months shall be included in the prospectus or appended to it. If such an interim financial statement is unaudited, that fact must be stated .
Where the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts, the competent authorities shall decide whether the interim financial statement to be submitted must be consolidated or not .
Any significant change which has occurred since the end of the last financial year or the preparation of the interim financial statement
must be described in a note inserted in the prospectus or appended thereto.
5.1.5. If the own or consolidated annual accounts do not comply with the Council Directives on undertakings' annual accounts and do not give a true and fair view of the issuer 's assets and liabilities , financial position and profits and losses , more detailed and/ or additional information must be given .
5.1.6. A table showing the sources and application of funds over the past three financial years.
5.2. Individual details listed below relating to the undertakings in which
the issuer holds a proportion of the capital likely to have a significant effect on the assessment of its own assets and liabilities, financial position or profits and losses .
The items of information listed below must be given in any event for every undertaking in which the issuer has a direct or indirect participating interest, if the book value of that participating interest represents at
least 10 % of the capital and reserves or accounts for at least 10 % of the net profit or loss of the issuer or, in the case of a group, if
the book value of that participating interest represents at least 10 % of the consolidated net assets or accounts for at least 10 X of the
consolidated net profit or loss of the group.
 (c) Proportion of capital
loss arising financial year .
The items of information listed below need not be given provided that the issuer proves that its holding is of a purely provisional nature.
Similar ly , the information required under points ( e ) and ( f ) may be omitted where the undertaking in which a participating interest is held does not publish its annual accounts.
Pending subsequent co-ordination of provisions relating to consolidated annual accounts, the Member States may authorize the competent authori­ ties to permit the omission of the information prescribed in points (d) to (j) if the annual accounts of the undertakings in which the partici­ pating interests are held are consolidated into the group annual accounts or if the value attributable to the interest under the equity method is disclosed in the annual accounts, provided that, in the opinion of the competent authorities, the omission of that information is not Likely to mislead the public with regard to the facts and circumstances, knowledge of which is essential for the assessment of the security in question.
The information provided for under points ( g ) and ( j ) may be omitted if , in the opinion of the competent authorities, such omission does not mislead investor's.
(a) Name and registered office of the undertaking .
(b) Field of activity.
out of
the last
<g) Value at which the issuer obliged to publish the prospectus shows
shares held in its accounts. " ' s
(h) Amount still to be paid up on shares held.
(i) Amount of dividends received in the course of the last financial
year in respect of shares held.
(j) Amount of the debts owed to and by the issuer with regard to the
Individual details relating to the undertakings not referred to in
heading 5.2 in which the issuer holds at least 10 % of the capital.
These details may be omitted when they are of negligible importance
for the purpose of the objective set in Article 5 of this Directive: <
( a ) Name and registered office of the undertaking . ( b ) Proportion of capital held .
Where the prospectus comprises consolidated annual accounts , disclosure :
(a) of the consolidation principles applied. These shall be described explicitly where the Member State has no laws governing the conso­ lidation of annual accounts or where such principles are not in conformity with such laws or with a generally accepted method in use in the Member State where the offer is made;
(b) of the names and registered offices of the undertakings included in the consolidation, where that information is important for the pur­ pose of assessing the assets and liabilities, the financial position and the profits and losses of the issuer. It is sufficient to distinguish them by a sign in the list of undertakings of which details are required in heading 5.2 ;
(c) for each of the undertakings referred to in (b):
- the total proportion of third-party interests, if annual accounts
are consolidated globally ;
- the proportion of the consolidation calculated on the basis of interests , if consolidation has been effected on a pro rata basis .
Where the issuer is a dominant undertaking forming a group with one or more dependent undertakings, the details provided for in Chapters A and 7 shall be given for that issuer and group.
The competent authorities may permit the provision of that information for the issuer alone or for the group alone, provided that the details which are not provided are not material.
members of the administrative , management or supervisory bodies ;
partners ship with
founders , years .
with unlimited liability , in the case of a limited partner­ a share capital ;
if the company has been established for fewer than five
5.6. If certain information provided for under Schedule A is given in the
annual accounts provided in accordance with this Chapter, it need not be repeated .
-Chapter 6 - Information concerning administration, management and supervision
6.1. Names, addresses and functions in the issuing company of the following persons and an indication of the principal activities performed by them outside that Company where these are significant with respect to that company :
6.2. Interests of the members of the administrative, management and. super­
visory bodies in
the issuing company :
6.2.0. Remuneration paid and benefits in kind granted, during the last completed
financial year under any heading whatsoever, and charged to overheads
or the profit appropriation account, to members^of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies, these being total amounts for each
category of body.
The total remuneration paid and benefits in kind granted to all members of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies of the issuer by all the dependent undertakings with which it forms a group must be indicated . , > ,
6.2.1 . Total number of shares in the issuing company held by the members of its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and options granted
to them on the company's shares. 1
6.2.2. Information about the nature and extent of the interests of members
of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies in transactions effected by the issuer which are unusual in their nature or conditions
, ( such as purchases outside normal activity , acquisition or disposal of fixed asset items) during the preceding financial year and the current financial year. Where such unusual transactions were concluded in the course of previous financial years and have not been definitively con­ cluded, information on those transactions must also be given.
6.2.3. Total of all the outstanding leans granted by the issuer to the persons referred to in heading 6.1 (a) and also of any guarantees provided
by the issuer for their benefit .
6.3. Schemes for involving the staff in the capital of the issuer.
Chapter 7 - Information concerning the recent development and prospects of the i ssuer
Except in the event of a derogation granted by the competent authorities, general information on the trend of the issuer's business since the end o,f the financial year to which the last published annual accounts relate,
- the most significant recent trends in production, sales and stocks and the state of the order book, and
- recent trends in costs and selling prices.
Except in the event of a derogation granted by the competent authorities, information on the issuer's prospects for at least the current financial year .
Chapter 1 - Information concerning those responsible for the prospectus and the auditing of accounts
Names and addresses of the natural or legal persons responsible for the prospectus or, as the case may be, for certain parts of it with, in the
latter case, an indication of those parts.
Declaration by those responsible , as referred to in heading 1.1 , that ,
to the best of their knowledge, the information given in that part of
facts and contains no omissions- likely to affect the import of the pro­ spectus . -
Names, addresses and qualifications of the official auditors who have
audited the annual accounts for the preceding three financial years in i
accordance with national law.. ' -
Statement that the annual accounts have been audited. If audit reports on the annual accounts have been refused by the official auditors or if they contain qualifications, such refusal or such qualifications must be reproduced in full and the reasons given.
Indication of other information in the prospectus which has been audited by the auditors.
the prospectus for which they are responsible is in accordance with the /■
Chapter 2 - Information concerning loans and the offer for sale to the public of debt securities
2.1 . Conditions of the loan :
2.1.0 . The nominal amount of the loan ; if this amount is not to this effect .must be made.
The nature, number and numbering of the debt securities and the de­ nominations.
2.1.1. Except in the case of continuous issues, the issue and redemption prices and the nominal interest rate; if several interest rates are provided for , an indication of the conditions for changes in the rate .
2.1.2. Procedures for the allocation of any other advantages; the method of calculating such advantages .
2.1.3. Tax on the income from the debt securities withheld at source in the country of origin and/or the country where the offer is made.
Indication as to whether the issuer assumes responsibility for the with­ holding of tax at source .
2.1.4 . Arrangements for the amortization of the loan , including the repayment procedures .
2.1.5. The financial organizations which are the paying agents of the issuer in the Member State where the offer takes place.
Currency of the loan; if the loan is denominated in units of account, the contractual status of these ; currency option .
( a ) Period of the loan and any interim due dates .
(b) The date from which interest becomes payable and the due dates for
(c) The time limit on the validity of claims to interest and repayment of principal.
(d) Procedures and time limits for delivery of the debt securities, possible creation of provisional certificates.
Except in the case of continuous issues , an indication of yield . The method whereby that yield is calculated shall be described in summary form .
Indication of the resolutions , authorizations and of which the debt securities have been or will be
Type of operation and amount thereof .
Number of debt securities which have been or will '/
issued , if predetermined .
approvals by virtue created and/or issued.
be created and/or
Nature and scope of the guarantees , sureties and commitments intended
to ensure that the loan will be duly serviced as regards both the re­
payment of the debt securities and the payment of interest. ν
Indication of the places where the public may have access to the texts of the contracts relating to these guarantees , sureties and commitments .
2.2.2. Organization of trustees or of any other representation for the body of debt security holders .
Name and function and description and head office of the representative
of the debt security holders, the main conditions of such representation
> and in particular the conditions under which the representative may be re­
placed . 1
Indication of where the public may have access to the contracts relating
to these forms of representation . > \
2.2.3. Mention of clauses subordinating the loan to other debts of the issuer already contracted or to be contracted.
2.2.4. Indication of the legislation under which the debt securities have
been created and of the courts competent in the event of litigation. β
2.2.5. Indication as to whether the debt securities are registered or bearer.
2.2.6 . Any restrictions on the free transferability of the debt securities .
2.3. Information concerning the offer for subscription or sale to the public :
2.3.0. The stock exchanges where admission to official listing is or will be sought .
2.3.1 . Names , addresses and description of the natural or legal persons underwriting or guaranteeing the issue for the issuer. Where not all of the issue is underwritten or guaranteed, a statement of the portion not covered.
2.3.2. If the issue was or is being made simultaneously on the markets of
two or more States and if a tranche has been or is being reserved
for certain of these , indication of any such tranche . /
Information concerning the issue of the debt securities being offered to the public :
2.4.0. The procedure for the exercise of any right of pre-emption; the negotiability of subscription rights; the treatment of subscription rights not exercised .
Method of payment of the issue or offer price.
Except in the case of continuous debt security issues, period of the opening of the issue or offer and any possibilities of early closure.
Indication of the organizations responsible for receiving the public 's
General information about the issuer :
Name , registered office and principal administrative establishment, if different from the registered office .
Date of incorporation and the length of life of the issuer, except where indefinite .
2.4.4. Reference, where necessary> to the fact that the subscriptions may be reduced .
2.4.5. Except in the case of continuous debt security issues, indication of the net proceeds of the loan .
2.4.6 . Purpose of the issue and intended application of its proceeds . Chapter 3 - General information about the issuer and its capital
Legislation under which the issuer operates and legal form which it. has adopted under that legislation .
Indication of memorandum of
Indication of
the issuer's objects and reference to the clause in the association in which they are described.
the register and of the entry number therein.
The part of the issued capital still to be paid up, with an indication of the number , or total nominal value , and the type of securities not yet fully paid up,broken down where applicable
according to the extent to which they have been paid up.
The amount of any convertible debt securities , exchangeable debt securities or debt securities with warrants, with an indication of the conditions governing and the procedures for conversion, exchange or subscription .
3.2.2. If the issuer belongs to a group of undertakings, a brief
and nominal value or, in the absence of a accounting par value of any of its own
3.1.5. Indication of where the documents concerning the issuer which are referred to in the prospectus may be inspected.
3.2.0. The amount of the issued capital and the number and classes of the securities of which it is composed with details of their principal characteristics .
group and of the issuer 's position within it .
nominal value, the
shares which the issuer or another company in which the issuer has a direct or indirect holding of more than 50% has acquired and is holding, if such securities do not appear as a separate item on the balance sheet, insofar as they represent a significant part of the issued capital .
description of the
 Chapter 4 - Information concerning the issuer's activities
The issuer's principal activities:
Description of the issuer's principal activities, stating the main categories of products sold and/or services performed.
Indication of any significant new products and/or activities.
Net turnover during the past two financial years.
Location and size of the issuer's principal establishments and summary information about real estate owned. Any establishment which accounts for more than 10 % of turnover or production shall- be considered a
For mining , extraction of hydrocarbons , quarrying and . similar activities insofar as significant, description of deposits, estimate of economically exploitable reserves and expected period of working.
Indication of the periods and main terms of concessions and the economic conditions for working them.
Indication of the progress of actual working. _ :
4.1.4. Where the information given pursuant to headings 4.1.0 to 4.1.3 has been influenced by exceptional factors, that fact should be mentioned.
4.2. Summary information regarding the extent to which the issuer is dependent, if at all, on patents or licences, industrial, commercial or financial contracts or new manufacturing processes, where such factors are of fun­ damental importance to the issuer's business or profitability.
4.3." Information on any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have or have had a significant effect on the issuer's financial position in the recent past .
Description , with figures , of the main investments made , including interests such as shares , debt securities , etc ., in other undertakings , over the past three financial years and the months already elapsed of the current financial year .
4.4.1. Information concerning the principal investments being made with the exception of interests being acquired in other undertakings.
Distribution of these investments geographically ( home and abroad ). Method of financing ( internal or external ).
Information concerning the issuer 's principal future investments , with the exception of interests to be acquired in other undertakings, on which its management bodies have already made firm commitments.
5 - Information concerning the issuer 's assets and liabilities , financial position and profits and losses
Accounts of the issuer :
The last two balance sheets and profit and loss accounts drawn up by the issuer set out as a comparative table. The notes on the annual accounts for the last financial year .
The draft prospectus must be filed with the competent authorities not more than 18 months after the end of the financial year to which the
last annual accounts published relate. The competent authorities may extend that period in exceptional cases .
If the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts only, it shall in­ clude those accounts in the prospectus in accordance with heading 5.1.0.
If the issuer prepares both own and consolidated annual accounts, it shall include both sets of accounts in the prospectus in accordance with heading 5.1.0 . However , the competent authorities may allow the issuer to include either the own or the consolidated annual accounts, on condition that the accounts which are not included do not provide any significant additional information .
5.1.2. Where more than nine toonths have elapsed since the end of the financial year to which the last published own annual and/or consolidated annual accounts relate, an interim financial statement covering at least the first six months shall be included in the prospectus or appended to it.
If the interim financial statement is unaudited, that fact must be stated.
Where the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts, the competent authorities shall decide whether the interim financial statement to be submitted must be consolidated or not .
Any significant change which has occurred since the end of the last financial year or the preparation of the aforementioned interim financial statement must be described jn a note inserted in or appended to the prospectus . . ;
5.1.3. If the own annual or consolidated annual accounts do not comply with the Council Directives on undertakings' annual accounts and do not give
position and profits tion must be given .
Indication as at the of the following, if
and losses, more detailed and/or additional informa­ most recent date possible (which must be stated)
a true and fair view of^the issuer's assets and liabilities, financial
- the total amount of any loan capital outstanding, distinguishing between loans guaranteed (by the provision of security or otherwise, by the issuer or by third parties) and loans not guaranteed,
- the total amount of all other borrowings and indebtedness in the
nature of borrowing, distinguishing between guaranteed and unguaranteed borrowings and debts,
- the total amount of any contingent liabilities.
An appropriate negative statement shall be given, where appropriate, in the absence of any such loan capital, borrowings and indebtedness and contingent liabilities .
If the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts, the principles laid down in heading 5.1.1 shall apply .
As a general rule, no account should be taken of liabilities between undertakings within the same group, a statement to that effect being made if necessary.
5.1.5. A table showing the sources and application of funds over the past three financial years.
5.2. Individual details listed below relating to the undertakings in which
the issuer holds a proportion of the capital likely to have a significant effect on the assessment of its own assets and liabilities, financial position or profits and losses .
The items of information listed below must be given in any event for every undertaking in which the issuer has a direct or indirect partici­ pating interest, if the book value of that participating interest re­ presents at least 10 % of the capital and reserves or accounts for at
Least 10 % of the net profit or loss of the issuer, or in the case of
a group, if the book value of that participating interest represents at least 10 % of the consolidated net assets or accounts for at least 10 %
of the consolidated net profit or loss of the group.
The items of information Listed below need not be given provided that the issuer proves that its holding is of a purely provisional nature.
Similarly , the information required under points ( e ) and ( f ) may be omitted where the undertaking in which a participating interest is held does not publish its annual accounts.
Pending co-ordination of provisions relating to consolidated annual accounts , the Member States may authorize' the competent authorities to permit the omission of the information prescribed in points ( d ) to ( h )
if the annual accounts of the undertakings in which the participating interests are held are consolidated into the group annual accounts or
if the value attributable to the interest under the equity method is disclosed in the annual accounts, provided that in the opinion of the competent authorities, the omission of that information is not likely to mislead the public with regard to the facts and circumstances knowledge of which is essential for the assessment of the security in question.
(a) Name and registered office of ,the undertaking. (b) 'FieId of activity.
(c) Proportion of capital held .
(f) Profit or loss arising out of ordinary activities., after tax, for the last financial year .
(g) Amount still to be paid up on shares field. *■
(h) Amount of dividends received in the course of the last financial year in respect of shares' held .
for each of , the undertakings referred to in ( b ):
5.3. When the prospectus comprises consolidated annual accounts, disclosure:
( a ) of the consolidation principles applied . These shall be described explicitly where the Member State has no laws governing the consoli­ dation of annual accounts or where such principles are not in con­ formity with such laws or with a generally accepted method in use
in the Member State where the offer is made;
(b) of the names and registered offices of the undertakings included in . the consolidation, where that information is important for the pur­ pose of assessing the assets and liabilities, the financial position and the profits and losses of the issuer. It is sufficient to distinguish them by a sign in the list of companies for which details are required in heading 5.2 ;
- the total proportion of third-party interests, if annual accounts are consolidated globally;
- the proportion of the consolidation calculated on the basis of interests, if consolidation has been effected on a pro rata basis.
5.4. Where the issuer is a dominant undertaking forming a group with one or more dependent undertakings, the details provided for in Chapters 4 and 7 shall be given for that issuer and group.
The competent authorities may permit the provision of that information for the issuer alone or for the group alone, provided that the details which are not provided are not material.
5.5. If certain information provided for under Schedule B is given in the annual accounts provided in accordance with this Chapter, it need not be repeated .
 Chapter 6 - Information concerning administration, management and supervision
6.1. Names, addresses and functions in the issuing udnertaking of the following persons, and an indication of the principal activities per­ formed by them outside that undertaking where these are significaht with respect tov that undertaking :
( a ) members of the administrative , management or supervisory bodies ;
(b) partners with unlimited liability, in the case of a limited partner­
Except in the event of a derogation granted by the competent authorities,
general information on' the trend of the issuer 's business since the end
i of the financial year to which the last published annual accounts relate.
- the most significant recent trends in production, sales and stocks and
ship with a share capital .
Chapter 7 7 Information concerning the recent development and prospects of the issuer
the state of the order book, and 1 ; ■. -.1
- recent trends in costs and selling prices.
7.2. Except in the event of a derogation granted by, the competent authorities, information on the issuer's prospects for at least the current financial
Chapter 1 - General information about the issuer "
Name, registered office and principal administrative establishment if
different from the registered office .-. %
Date of incorporation and length of life of the issuer, except where indefinite . - ,
Legislation under which the issuer operates and legal form which it has adopted under that legislation .
The amount of the issued capital and the number and classes of the *
securities of which it is composed with details of their principal characteristics .
The part of the issued capital still to be paid up, with an indication of the number, or total nominal value, and the type of the securities not yet fully paid up, broken down where applicable according to the extent to which they have been paid up.
Indication of the principal holders of the capital.
Names, addresses and functions in the issuing body of the following persons, and an indication of the principal activities performed by them outside that body where these are significant with respect to that body, and also the functions held: ■ . <-
Ca) members of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies;
(b) partners with unlimited liability, in the case of a limited partner ship with a share capital.
, 1.7. The company's objects. If the issue of certificates representing shares is not the sole object of the company, the nature of its other activi­ ties must be described, those of a purely trustee nature being dealt with separately . <
A summary of the annual accounts relating to the last completed finan­ cial year. . (
Where more than nine months have elapsed since the end of the last financial year to which the last published own annual and/or consolidated annual accounts relate, an interim financial statement covering at least the first six months shall be included in the prospectus or appended to it. If the interim financial statement is unaudited, that fact must be stated .
Where the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts, the competent
authorities shall decide whether the interim financial statement to be submitted must be consolidated or not .
- Any significant change which has occurred since the end of the last financial year or the preparation of the interim financial statement . must be described in a note inserted in the prospectus or appended
.j ,. , thereto.
Chapter 2 - Information on the certificates themselves 2.1 . Légal status :
Indication of the rules governing the issue of the certificates and mention of the date and place of their publication.
2.1.0. Exercise of and benefit from the rights attaching to the original secu­ rities, in particular voting rights - conditions on which the issuer of
the certificates may exercise such rights, and measures envisaged to obtain the instructions of the certificate holders - and the right to share in profits and any liquidation surplus.
2.1.1. Bank or other guarantees attached to the certificates and intended to underwrite the issuer 's obligations .
2.1.2. Possibility of obtaining the conversion of the certificates into original securities and procedure for such conversion .
The amount of the commissions and costs to be borne by the holder in connection with :
- the issue of the certificate ;
- the payment of the coupons;
- the creation of additional certificates;
- the exchange of the certificates for original securities. '
Transferability of the certificates :
( a ) The stock exchanges where admission to official listing is , or will be, sought;
(b) Any restrictions on the free transferability of the certificates.
Indication of the tax arrangements with regard to any taxes and charges to be borne by the holders and levied in the countries where the certi- f i cates are i ssued .
Indication of the legislation under which the certificates have been created and of the courts competent in the event of litigation.
ME It J
 - to -
sull' anda­
l' offre .
des warrants ;
l' offre
con warrants , con in­
SCHEMA VOOR HET PROSPECTUS - , a VOOR DE AANBIEDING VAN AANDELEN VOOR INSCHRIJVING OF
coordinating the requirements for the drawing up, scrutiny and distribution of the prospectus to be published when
securities are offered for subscription or sale to the public
(presented by the Commission to the Council) I
Proposal for a Directive coordinating the requirements for the drawing up, scrutiny and distribution of the prospectus to be
published wh6n securities are offered for
subscription or sale to the public
Investment in securities involves risk, like any other form of investment.\The Commission considers that the best way of ensuring an adequate degree of investor protection in the face of such risk is to require appropriate information to be given to investors concerning secu­ rities and the issuers of securities. In this way, investors can be put
in a position to take investment decisions in full knowledge of the facts, and .can themselves make an accurate assessment of the risks involved.
Further, the.provision of adequate and timely information is likely to increase investor confidence in securities markets; and the smooth and efficient functioning of such markets will be encouraged as a result. ,
An important step in the Community's information policy was taken
with the adoption by the Council of Ministers on 17 March 1980 of Directive 80/390/EEC (1) coordinating the requirements for the drawing up, scrutiny and distribution of the listing particulars to be published for the admission of securities to official stock exchange listing ("the Listing Particulars Directive"). In addition, the Directive coordinating conditions of admission to official stock exchange listing (79/279/EEC) (2) contains provisions relating to information to be published by issuers whose securities are admitted to official listing, in particular on the happening of exceptional events likely to have a significant effect on stock exchange prices. A further Directive is at present being discussed in a Working Party in the Council of Ministers, relating to information to be published on a regular basis by companies whose shares are admitted to official listing (3).
(1) O.J. N° L100 of 17/4/1980 - (2) O.J. N° L 66 of 16/3/1979
(3) O.J. N° C 29 of 1/2/1979
The Commission considers/ however/ that an adequate information policy should not be limited to securities which are admitted to official listing. The effective protection of investors requires that information be given concerning securities and their issuers at the moment when the securities are first offered for subscription or sale to the public, whether or not
the securities are subsequently admitted to official stock exchange listing. This is the aim of the present proposal.
Even in those Member States in which the market provided by the official stock exchange is the central market/ a number of public offers take place outside the stock exchange, and investors do not therefore have the benefit of the safeguards which are associated with admission to official stock exchange listing. The present proposal for a Directive is designed to provide that equivalent information be given to them in such circumstances. This
need is all the greater in those countries where the stock exchange is not the central market, and in which a substantial number or even the majority of public offers take place outside the stock exchange.
The interpenetration of national securities markets within the Community is an essential prerequisite for the creation of a common capital market.
For such interpenetration to take place, such markets must all function properly, and provide equivalent safeguards for investocs. At the present
time, however, standards of investor protection on the occasion of a public offer of securities are not equivalent throughout the Community. Only fiv£ Member States (France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom and Ireland) require a prospectus to be published on the occasion of an offer of securities to the public and the. information required to be given is of course different. In coordinating requirements in the Member States relating to the drawing up, scrutiny and distribution of the prospectus, the Directive will make safeguards available to investors equivalent throughout the Community. This in turn
will contribute to the proper functioning of securities markets, and therefore to the process of interpenetration.
 Interpenetration willbe further encouraged by the Directive insofar
as issuers will be more Likely to offer their securities- to the public in
more than one Member State once the content of the information to be contained in the prospectus has been coordinated on a Community-wide basis. Offers of securities on a cross-border basis within the Community would be impeded
by widely differing prospectus requirements from one Member State to the next. The Directive should therefore have a positive effect on the volume
of such offers. *
If Community rules relating to investor protection;:and information have »
to be observed only by issuers whose securities are admitted to official
listing/ a position of discrimination would arise as between issuers whose securities were listed on the one hand and not listed |jp the other. This could result in many issuers preferring not to apply fgr their securities tobeadmittedtolisting.Suchadevelopment wouldbjjcontrarytothe
Commission'spolicyofencouragingissuerstoapplyfajj» theadmissionof their securities to the market provided by the official stock exchange/
which represents the best ,safeguard for the interests of investors.
On the contrary, the coordination of the public offer prospectus should make it easier for issuers to apply for stock exchange listing for their securities . This is in view of the fact that under the provisions of the Listing Particulars Directive/ the public offer prospectus can be used for the purpose of admission to the stock exchange/ if it contains equivalent information to that required by that Directive/ and providing that admission takes place within the twelve months following the public offer. The present proposal for a Directive will therefore make it easier for an issuer which has offered its securities to the public to apply for their admission to official stock exchange listing.
As regards the scope of the proposal for a Directive/ only non-listed securities are to be covered/ as the prospectus to be published concerning listed securities is dealt with by the Listing Particulars Directive. The present proposal for a Directive imposes the obligation to publish a prospectus not only on the "classical" occasion of an issuer offering its securities for subscription to the public/ whether directly or by means of a financial inter­ mediary acting on its behalf/ but also where-offers of sale are made by shareholders (Article 1 (1)). The scope is therefore wide, but the Directive
authorizes the competent authorities to exercise a certain power of discretion to take account of individual cases. Thus, Article 7 <1) allows the competent authorities to give partial or complete dispensations from the obligation to publish a prospectus where offers for sale are made by third parties (other than financial intermediaries) who are independent of the issuer (the most likely case would be an offer made by a major shareholder).
The Directive provides for no precise definition of a "public offer",
but states that there shall in any event be considered to be a public offer where the offer is "not addressed exclusively to a restricted circle of persons"/ (Article 1 (2) first paragraph). The Member States are required
to define "restricted circle of persons" in accordance with certain non-limi- tative criteria (Article 1 (2) second paragraph).
The detailed content of the information to be published is contained in the three Schedules/, which relate respectively to shares, debt securities, and certificates representing shares. Such information is analogous to that contained in the Listing (Particulars Directive/ with suitable adaptation being made to take account of the difference in circumstances.
As the information required under the Schedules is very detailed in nature, only the issuer of the securities or a person acting on his behalf would in general be in a position to provide it. Accordingly/ Article 8 (2) provides for the possibility of exemption from publishing certain information where a public offer for sale is made by e.g. a financial intermediary acting independently of the company/ or by a shareholder, and where the person in question would not normally be in a position to give such information.
Articles 9 to 16 contain various possibilities of adaptation according to the particular nature of the public offer or of the issuer in question, and reflect similar provisions in the Listing Particulars Directive.
Articles 17 to 22 set out rules for the scrutiny and publication of the prospectus. In Article 17 (2) it is stated that no prospectus may be published unless it has first been approved by the competent authorities.
 There is provision for cooperation between the competent authorities in
the case of public offers affecting more than one Member State (Article 23)/
with a view to establishing/ as far as possible/ a common text for the prospectus to be published in each such Member State.
Finally/ Article 25 provides that'the Contact Committee set up under Directive 79/279/EEC shall also be the Contact Committee for the purposes of the present Directive and that it shall have similar functions.
Community, and
Proposal for a Directive coordinating the requirements for the drawing up, scrutiny and distribution of the prospectus to be
published when securities are offered for »
subscription or sale to the public
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic in particular Articles 54 (3)(g) and 100> thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas investment in securities, like any other form of investment, involves risks, and the protection of investors requires that they be put in a position to make a correct assessment of such risks so as to be able to take investment decisions in full knowledge of the facts;
Whereas the provision of adequate and complete information concerning securities and the issuers of securities promotes the protection of investors by allowing the1 latter to evaluate the risks undertaken and to take decisions on their own responsibility;
Whereas, moreover, such information represents an effective means of reinforcing confidence in securities and thus contributes
to the correct functioning of securities markets and to encouraging their development ;
Whereas it is accordingly appropriate to establish an infor­ mation policy relating to securities at Community level, and whereas such an ■information policy, by virtue of the safeguards that it provides to investors and its impact on the correct functioning of securities markets, is of such
a nature as to promote the interpenetration of national securities markets and thus to contribute to the creation of a genuine European capital market;
 Whereas the Council Directive 80/390/EEC of 17 March 1980 coordinating the requirements for the drawing up/ scrutiny and distribution
of the listing particulars to be published for the admission of securities
to officia I stock exchange listing (1 ) represents an important step in the implementation of such an information policy at Community level; whereas
that Directive coordinates the information to be published when securities are admitted to stock exchange listing concerning the securities offered
and the issuers of such securities, so as to allow investors to make an infor­
med assessment and losses and securities ;
securities are
of the assets and liabilities / financial position / profits
prospects of the issuer and of the rights attaching to such , '*
Whereas such an information policy also <requi res that when
offered for subscription or sale to the;,public/ whether or ■ >J - - î,;
not they are subsequently admitted to stock exchange listing, similar inform
mation should be made available to investors in the forp of a prospectus; V.
whereas a coordination of the content of this prospectus is also required
in order to achieve equivalence with safeguards available to investors in v the various Member States 'and to encourage the interpefjetration of national :
securities markets; whereas such coordination is all thje more necessary in i view of the fact that the public offer prospectus can qlso be used, .in accor-f dance with the conditions laid down by Council Directive 80/390/EEC/ as stock exchange listing particulars if it contains equivalent information to that required by that Directive; whereas it is therefore appropriate to simplify the task of issuers which subsequently apply for the admission of their securities to a Community stock exchange/ and to ensure that the content
of the public offer prospectus should be equivalent to that of the listing particulars in all the Member States ;
Whereas such coordination must apply to securities independen­ tly of the legal status of the issuing undertaking/ and accordingly/ in so far as this Directive applies to entities to which no reference is made in the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Treaty and goes beyond the scope
of Article 54 (3)(g)/ it must be based also on Article 100;
This Directive shall apply to securities which are offered for
subscription or sale to the public within a Member State provided that the securities are not admitted to official listing on a stock exchange situa­ ted or operating in that Member State. s
2. For the purposes of applying this Directive, securities shall be
considered to be offered for subscription or sale to the public where the
offer is not addressed exclusively to a restricted circle of persons.
The Member States shall determine what is mea$it by "restricted circle of persons" having regard to the number of persons to whom the offer is addressed and, if appropriate, having regard also to their nature, to the amount of the offer, and to the means of publicity used for making the offer .
This Directive shall not apply to :
(a) units issued by collective investment undertakings other than the closed-end type; or
(b) securities issued by a State or by its regional or local authorities; or * •
(c) securities issued in connection with a takeover offer; or
(d) securities issued in connection with a merger involving the acquisition of another company or the formation of a new company, the division of company, the transfer of all or part of an undertaking's assets and liabilities or as con-* sideration for the transfer of assets other than cash; or
(e) shares allotted free of charge to holders of shares; or
(f) shares issued in substitution for shares if the issuing of such new shares does not involve any increase in the com­ pany's issued share capital; or
(g) shares allotted directly or indirectly to employees or to Trustees holding them on behalf of employees.
For the purposes of applying this Directive :
Ca) "collective investment undertakings other than the closed- end type" shall mean unit trusts and investment companies :
- £he object of which is the collective investment of capi­
tal prodded by the public, and which operate on the prin' ciple of risk spreading; and
sales rebates and of value added tax and other taxes linked directly to the turnover ;
credit institution shall mean an undertaking whose business is to receive deposits or other repayable funds from the publi and to grant credits for its own account;
"parti cpating interests " shall mean rights in the capital
of other undertakings, whether or not represented by certi­ ficates , which , by creating a durable link with those under­ takings, are intended to contribute to the activities of the undertaking which holds these rights ;
"annual accounts" shall comprise the balance sheet, the profit and loss account and the notes on the accounts. These document shall constitute a composite whole .
- the units of which are , at the holders' request , purchased or redeemed, directly or indirectly, out of the assets of these undertakings. Action taken by such undertakings to ensure that the stock exchange value of their units does not significantly vary from their net asset value shall
be regarded as equivalent to such repurchase or redemption;
(b) "units of a collective investment undertaking" shall mean securities issued by a collective investment undertaking as representing the rights of participants in the assets of such an undertaking ;
" issuers " shall mean companies and other legal persons and
any undertakings whose securities are offered for subscription
or sale to the public ;
(d) net turnover shall comprise the amounts derived from the sale of products and the provision of services falling within the undertaking 's ordinary activities , after deduction of
Member States shall ensure that an offer for subscription or sale of securities to the public within their territories is conditional upon the publi­ cation of a prospectus .
The obligation to publish is incumbent upon the person making the public offer or on whose behalf the public offer is made.
1. The prospectus shall contain the information which, according to the particular nature of the issuer of securities offered for subscription
or sale to the public/ and particulars of these securities, is necessary to enable investors and their investment advisers to make an informed assessment of the assets and liabilities, financial position, profits and losses, and prospects of the issuer and of the rights attaching to the securities.
2. Member States shall ensure that the obligation to supply the infor­ mation referred to in paragraph 1 is incumbent upon the ^persons responsible for the prospectus as provided for in heading 1.1 of Schedules A and B annexe^
1. Without prejudice to the obligation referred to in Article 5, Member States shall ensure that, subject to the possibilites for exemptions provided for in Articles 7 and 8, prospectuses contain, in as easily analysable and comprehensible a form as possible, at least the items of information provided for in Schedules A,B or C, depending on whether shares, debt securities or certificates, representingsharesareinvolved.
2. In the specific cases covered by Articles 9 to 16 the prospectus is to be drawn up in accordance with the specifications given in those Articles, subject to the possibilities for exemptions provided for in Articles 7 and 8.
3 . Where certain headings in SchedulesA,B and _C appear inappropriate to the issuer's sphere of activity or legal form, a prospectus giving equi­ valent information shall be drawn up by adapting these headings.
hereto .
Member States may allow the authorities responsible for checking
the prospectus within the meaping of this Directive (hereinafter referred
to as "the competent authorities") to provide for partial or complete exemp­ tion from the obligation to publish a prospectus in the following cases :
1) where the securities are not offered by the issuer or by financial intermediaries ;
2) where the securities offered are : <j \
shares resulting from the conversion of convertible debt
securities or shares created after an exchange for exchan­ geable debt securities ; or f.
shares resulting from the exercise of the rights conferred by warrants;
3) where the securities offered are :
(a) shares of which either the number or the nominal value or, in the absence of a nominal value , the accounting par value , amounts to less than 1-0 % of the number or of the correspon­
ding value of shares of the same class as Jj^ve already been offered to the public in the Member State where the offer is
made, and of which the nominal value, or in the absence of a nominal value , the accounting par value , is in any event less than 25,000 U.A.;
where appropriate , the information provided for in Chapter
and /
2 of Schedule A is published in accordance with Article 19 and Article 20 (1);
<b) debt securities issued by companies and other legal persons which are nationals of a Member State and which
- in carrying on their business, benefit from State monopolies, and- ,.
- are set up or governed by a special law or pursuant to such
a law or whose borrowings are unconditionally and irrevocably
guaranteed by a Member State or one of a Member State's
federated States; or » . . '
(c) debt securities issued by legal persons, other than companies,
which are nationals of a Member State and - •'-.''%
- are set up> by special law, and
- the activities of which are governed by that law and consist solely in : - ' ^
(i) raising funds under state control through the issue of debt securities, and ' ,
(ii) financing production by means of th^ resources which they have raised and resources provided by a Member
State, and ]
- the debt decurities of which are, for the purposes of admissiop
to official listing, considered as debt securities issued i './•
or guaranteed by the State; or
, (d> supplementary certificates representing shares issued in exchan­ ge for the original securities, where the issuing of such new certificates has not brought about any increase in the company's issued share capital, provided that a document which the competent authorities consider to contain equivalent information to that contained in the prospectus required by this Directive and re­ lating, to the certificates representing such shares has already been published in the same Member State as that in which the
offer to the public is made;
and where in all the cases referred to in "the points mentioned above informa­ tion concerning the number and type of securities to be offered and the "circum­ stances in which such securities have been issued has been published in accor­ dance with Article 19 and Article 20 (1).
1 . The competent authorities may authorize omission from the prospectus of certain information provided for by this Directive if they consider that :
(a) such information is of minor, importance only and is not such as. will influence assessment of the assets and liabilities, financial position, profits and losses and prospects of the issuer, or
(b) disclosure of such information would be contrary to the public interest or seriously detrimental to the issuer, provided that, in the latter case, such omission would not be likely to mislead the public with regard to facts and circumstances, knowledge
of which is essential for the assessment of the securities in question .
2. Where the person making the offer is a person other than the issuer
or a person acting on his behalf, the competent authorities may authorize omission from the prospectus of certain information which would not normally be in his possession .
Contents of the prospectus in certain specific cases Article 9
and 3.2.9,
Where the offer relates to shares offered to shareholders of the
issuer on a preemptive basis, the competent authorities may provide that the prospectus shall contain only the information provided for by Schedule A :
- in Chapter 4, headings 4.2 , 4.4 , 4.5 , 4.7.1 , and 4.7.2 ,
- in Chapter 5, headings 5.1.4, 5.1.5, and 5.5,
- in Chapter 6, headings 6.1, 6.2.0, 6.2.1, 6.2.2, 6.2.3, and
Where the shares referred to in the first subparagraph are represen­
ted by certificates , the prospectus shall contain > at least , subject to Article 15.(2) and (3), in addition to the information mentioned in that subparagraph, that provided for in Schedule C : / - /
- in Chapter 1, headings 1.1, 1.3, 1.4, 1.6 and 1.8, and - in Chapter 2.
2. Where the' offer relates to convertible debt securities, exchangeable debt securities or debt securities with warrants which are offered on a pre-emptive basis to the shareholders of the issuer, the competent authorities may provide that the prospectus shall contain only : >• -
information concerning the nature of the shares offered by way of conversion,- exchange or subscription and the rights attaching thereto ;
the information provided for in Schedule A and mentioned above in the first
subparagraph of paragraph 1, except for that provided for in Chapter 2 of *
that Schedule ; . .
the information provided for in Chapter 2 of Schedule B; and
the conditions of and procedures for conversion, exchange and subscription and the situations -in which they may be amended.
4 . Where the issuer prepares both own and consolidated annual accounts , both sets of accounts must be published and be made permanent ly^avai lable
to the public. However, the competent authorities may allow the issuer to publish and make permanently available to the public either the own or the consolidated accounts alone,' provided that the accounts not published and
The annual accounts for the' latest financial year must be published
and be made permanently available to the public in the same way as the prospectus referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2.
made permanently available to the public furnish no material additional information.
1 . Where the offer relates to debt securities which are neither conver- ν
tible, exchangeable, nor accompanied by warrants and are issued by an under­ taking which has securities listed on a stock exchange situated or operating in the Member State where the offer is made, the competent authorities may provide that the prospectus shall contain only the information provided for by Schedule B :
and be made permanently available to the public in the same way as the prospectus referred to in paragraph 1
3 . Where the issuer prepares both own and consolidated annual accounts , both sets of accounts must be published and be made permanently available co the public- However, the competent authorities may allow the issuer to publish and make permanently available to the public either the own or the consolidated sccounts alone, provided that the accounts not published and made permanently available to the public furnish no material addit-'onat. information.
t . Where the offer relates to securities issued by financial institu­ tions , the prospectus must contain :
and 3.2.2 , and 5.4 ,
6, and 7.
The annual accounts for the latest financial year must be published
- at Least the information specified in Chapters 1, 2, 3> 5 and 6 of Schedules A or B, according to whether the issue is of shares or debt securities/ and
- information adapted, in accordance with the rules laid for that purpose
by national law or by the competent authorities, to the particular nature of the issuer of the securities in question and at least equivalent to that specified in Chapters 4 and 7 of Schedules A or B.
Member States shall determine the financial institutions to be cove­ this Article .
The arrangements laid down by this Article may be extended to :
collective investment undertakings whose units are not pxcluded from the
scope of this Directive by Article 2 (a), ' f
finance companies engaging in no activity other than raising capital to make it available to their parent company or to undertakings affiliated to that company, and
companies holding portfolios of securities, licences or patents and engaging in no activity other than the management of such portfolios.
law, or pursuant to such a law, or are subject to public supervision designed to protect savings, the Member States may provide that the prospectus shall contain only :
- the information provided for in heading 1.1 and Chapter 2 of Schedule B, and 7
Where the offer relates to debt securities issued in a continuous
or repeated manner by credit institutions which regularly publish their annual accounts and which, within the Community, are set up or governed by a special
- information concerning any events of importance for the assessment of the
securities in question which have occurred since the end of the financial ι
year in respect of which the last annual accounts were published. Such accounts must be made available to the public at the issuer's offices and at those of the - financial organizations retained to act as the latter 's paying agents.
Where the offer relates to debt securities gufranteed by a legal
the prospectus must include : 5 cv
Where the debt securities referred to in paragraph 1 are issued
at very short intervals, the Member States may provide that the prospectus shall only contain information on the characteristics of such debt securitie
- with respect to the issuer, the information provided for in Schedule B,
with respect to the issuer , the information provided for in Chapters 1 , 2 and 3 and in headings S.'icO to 5.1.5 and 6.1 of Schedule 8, and
with respect to the guarantor, that provided for in heading 1.3 and
Chapters 3 to 7 of that Schedule.
- with respect to the guarantor, the information provided for in heading 1.3 and Chapters 3 to 7 of that Schedule.
Where the issuer or guarantor is a financial institution, the part of the prospectus relating to that financial institution shall be drawn up in accordance with Article 11 .
2. When the issuer of the guaranteed debt securities is a finance
company within the meaning of Article 11 (3), the prospectus must include :
Where there is more than one guarantor , the information specified
shall be required of each one; however, the competent authorities may allow abridgement of this information with a view to achieving greater comprehensi bility-of the prospectus .
4 . The guarantee . contract must , ir . th » c^ses referred to in paragraphs •
1f 2 and ~i, be made available for inspection by the public at the offices of tii« issuer and at those of the financial organizations retained tu act sa thb
latter's paying agents. Copies of the contract shall be provided tu.ary person concerned on request .
1 . Where the offer relates to convertible debt securities , exchangeable debt securities or debt securities with warrants, the prospectus must include '
- information concerning the nature of the shares offered by way of conversion, exchange or subscription, and the rights attaching thereto, ^ ■;
- the information provided for in heading.#.3 and Chapt^js3 to 7 of Schedule k.
~ the information provided for in Chapter 2 of Schedule^, and v - :Y
- the conditions of and procedures for conversion, exchjgjige or subscription and details of the situations in which they may be amapded.
2 ,. When the issuer of thy convertible debt securities , the exchangeable
debt securities or the debt securities with warrants is not the issuer of the shares , the prospectus must include
- information concerning the nature of the shares offered by way of conversion, exchange or subscription and the rights attaching thereto, and
- in respect of the issuer of the securities, the information provided for in Schedule B,
- in respect of the issuer of the shares, that provided for in heading 1.3 \-.
and Chapters 3 to 7 of Schedule A, and
- the conditions of and procedures for conversion, exchange or subscription and details of the situations in which they may be amended.
However, where the issuer of the debt securities is a finance company within the meaning of Article 11 (3)/ the prospectus need contain, in relation to that company, only the information provided for in Chapters 1, 2 and 3 and headings 5.1.0 to 5.1.5 and 6.1 of Schedule B.
1 . Where the offer relates to certificates representing shares , the prospectus must contain the information , as regards certificates , provided for in Schedule C and the information, as regards the shares represented, provided for in Schedule A.
2 . However , the competent authorities may relieve the issuer of the certificates of the requirement to publish details of its own financial position , when the issuer is :
. - a credit institution which is a national of a Member Sjtate and is set up
or governed by a special law or pursuant to such law <jjjp is subject to '
public supervision designed to protect savings, or I >
- a subsidiary 95 % or more of which is owned by a credit institution within the meaning of th£ preceding indent , the commitments of whi ch towards the holders of certificates a,re unconditionally guaranteed by that credit institution and which is subject, de jure or de facto, to the same super­ vision ; or
- an "Administratiekantoor" in the Netherlands governed, for the safe custody of the original securities, by special regulations laid down by the compe­ tent authorities ..
1 . Where the, offer relates to debt securities which benefit , as regards
both repayment of the loan and the payment of interest, from the unconditional and irrevocable guarantee of a State or of one of a State's federated States,
In the case of certificates issued by a securities transfer organi­
zation or by an auxiliary institution set up by such organization, the compe­ tent authorities may dispense with the publication of the information provided for in Chapter 1 of Schedule C.
national legislation or the competent authorities may authorize the abridge­ ment of the information provided for in Chapters 3 and 5 of Schedule B.
2. The possibility of abridgement provided for in paragraph 1 may also be applied to companies set up or governed by a special law or pursuant to such law which have the power to levy charges on their consumers.
Arrangements for the scrutiny and publication of the prospectus Article 17
1. Member States shall appoint one or more competent authorities and shall notify the Commission of the appointments of such authorities, giving details of any division of powers among them. Member States shall also ensure
that this
Directive is applied .
authorities shall approve the publication of the arte of the opinion that it satisfies all the requi­ Directive.
shall ensure that the competent authorities have the I
No prospectus may be published until it has been approved by the ..'
The competent
prospectus only if they rements set out in this
powers necessary for them to carry out their task.
4. This Directive shall not affect the competent authorities' liability which shall continue to be governed solely by the national law.
The competent authorities shall depide whether to accept the audit report of the official auditor provided for in heading 1.3 of Schedules A and B or, if necessary, to require an additional report.
The requirement for the additional report must be the outcome of an examination of each case on its merits. At the request of the official auditor and/or of the issuer, the competent authorities must disclose to them the reasons justifying this requirement.
The prospectus must be published and be made permanently available to the public in accordance with conditions laid down by the Member State in which the offer to the public is made.
1 . The prospectus must be published no later than the time of opening of the offer.
Moreover, where the offer is preceded by trading of the pre-emptive subscription rights, the prospectus must be published within a reasonable period, to be laid down by the competent authorities, before such trading starts .
2. In exceptional, properly justified cases, the competent authorities «
may allow the postponement of the publication of the prospectus until after the date of the opening of trading in preemptive subscription rights.
Where a prospectus is, or will be,, published in accordance with Articles 1 and 4, the notices, bills, posters and documents announcing the offer and indicating the essential characteristics of the securities, and all other documents relating to the offer and intended for publication by or on behalf of the person responsible for the prospectus, must first be communicated to the competent authorities. The latter shall decide whether they should be submitted to scrutiny before publication.
The above-mentioned documents and also the application form must state that the prospectus exists and indicate where it is being, or will be published in accordance with Article 19.
Every significant new factor capable of affecting assessment of the securities which arises between the time when the prospectus is adopted and the time when the offer is closed shall be covered by a supplement to the prospectus, scrutinized in the same way as the latter and published in accor­ dance with procedures to be laid down by the competent authorities.
Co-operation between the Member States Article 23
1. Where offers of the same securities -are made simultaneously/ or . within short intervals of one another within several Member States, the compe­ tent authorities sha11- exchange information and use their best endeavours to achieve maximum co-ordination of their requirements concerning the prospectus, to avoid a multiplicity of formalities and to agree to a single text requiring at the most translation, where appropriate, and the issue of supplements as necessary to meet the individual requirements of each Member State concerned.
2. Where an offer is made in a Member State of securities which have been offered in another Member State less than six months previously, the
competent authorities of the former Member State shall contact the competent authorities of the latter and shall, as far as possible, exempt the issuer of those securities from the preparation of a new prospectus, subject to any need for updating, translation or the -issue of supplements in accordance with the individual requirements of the Member State concerned.
1. Member States shall provide that all persons employed or formerly employed by the competent authorities shall be bound by professional secrecy. This means that any confidential information received in the course of their
duties may not be divulged to any person or authority except by virtue of provisions Laid down by taw.
2. Paragraph 1 shall not/ however, preclude the competent authorities of the various Member States from exchanging information as provided for in this Directive. Information thus exchanged shall be covered by the obligation
of by
professional secrecy to which the persons employed or formerly employed the competent authorities receiving the information are subject.
The Contact Committee set up by Article 20 of Council Directive
79/279/EEC of 5 March 1979 co-ordinating the conditions for the admission of
securities to official stock exchange listing <1), shall also have as its function :
a) without prejudice to Articles 169 and 170 of the EEC Treaty to facilitate
the harmonized implementation of this Directive through regular consulta­ tions on any practical problems arising from its application on which exchanges of views are deemed useful;
b) to facilitate consultation between the Member States on the supplements and improvements to the prospectus which the competent authorities are entitled to require or recommend at national level;
c) to advise the Commission, if necessary, on any additions or amendments
to be made to this Directive or on any adaptation to be made in accordance with Article 26.
2. It shall not be the function of the Contact Committee to appraise the merits of decisions taken by the competent authorities in individual cases
1. For the purpose of adjusting, in the Light of economic requirements, the amount referred to in Article 7 (3) (a), the Commission shall submit to
the Committee a draft of the measures to be taken. The Committee shall deliver its opinion within the period laid down by its chairman. Its decisions shall require 41 votes in favour, the votes of the Member States being weighted
as provided for in Article 148 (2) of th'e' Treaty.
2. When the Committee has delivered an opinion in favour of the draft of the measures envisaged by the Commission the latter shall adopt them.
Where the opinion of the Committee is not in accordance with the draft of the measures envisaged by the Commission or where the Committee
has not delivered an opinion within the required period, the Commission shall without delay lay before the Council, which shall act by qualified majority, a proposal concerning the measures to be taken.
Where the Council fails to act on the proposal within three months of irs receipt, the measures proposed shall be adopted by the Commission.
Final provisions r
2. As from the notification of this Directive, the Member States shall communicate to the Commission the texts of the main laws, regulations and
Member States shall take the measures necessary to comply with this '
Directive on or before... They shall forthwith inform the Commission thereof.
administrative provisions which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive .
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.
For the Counci I The President
Chapter 1 - Information concerning those responsible for the prospectus and the auditing of accounts ,
1.1. Name and function of natural persons and name and registered office
of legal persons responsible for the prospectus orj, as the case jnay be, for certain parts of it, with, in the latter case,|and indication of
1.2. Declaration by those responsible referred to in heading 1.1 that, to the best of their knowledge, the information givenfin that part of the
prospectus for which they are responsible is in accordance with the ν
facts and contains no' omissions likely to affect the import of the prospectus .
1.3. Names, addresses and qualifications of the official auditors who have
audited the company's annual accounts for the preceding three financial ♦
years in accordance with national law . <
Statement that the annual accounts have been audited. If audit reports on the annual accounts have been refused by the official auditors or
if they contain qualifications,, such refusal or such qualifications shall be reproduced in full and the reasons given.
Indication o'f other information in the prospectus which has been audited by the auditors.
Chapter 2 - Information concerning the offer for subscription or sale to
the public and the shares being offered
2.1. Information concerning the shares be^ng offered for subscription or sale to the public :
Indication of the resolutions , authorizations and approvals by virtue of which the shares have been or will be created and/or issued.
Nature of the issue and amount thereof.
Number of shares which have been or will be created / or issued , determined.
2.1.1. A concise description of the rights attaching to the shares, and in
particular the extent of the voting rights, entitlement to share in ί
the profits and to share in any surplus in the event of liquidation and I
any privileges. *
Time-limit after whiqh dividend entitlement lapses and indication of
the party in whose favour this entitlement operateg.
2.1.2. Tax on the income from the shares withheld at sour|e in the country of origin and/or the country where the offer is ma|e.
Indication as to whether the issuer assumes responsibility for the with­ holding of tax at source .
2.1.3. Arrangements for transfer of the shares and any restrictions on their
free negotiability ( e.g. clause establishing approval requirement ).
2.1.4. Date on which entitlement to dividends arises.
2.1.5. The stock exchanges where admission to official listing is or will be sought .
2.1.6. The financial organizations which are the paying agents of the issuer in the Member State where the offer takes place.
2.2. Information concerning the issue of the shares being offered to the publics
2.2.0. Indication of the exercise of the right of pre-emption of shareholders or of the restriction^ withdrawal of such right.
Indication, where applicable, of the reasons for restriction or with­ drawal of such right; in such cases, justification of the issue price, where an issue is for cash; indication of the beneficiaries if the restriction or withdrawal of the right of pre-emption is intended to benefit specific persons .
2.2.1. The total amount of the issue and the number of shares offered, where applicable by category.
2.2.2. If the issue was or is being made
simultaneously on the markets of two or more States and if a tranche has been or is being reserved for certain of these, indication of any
2.2.3. The issue price or the offer or placing price, staging the nominal value or, in its absence, the accounting par valuefor the amount to
be capitalized; the issue premium and the amount |f any expenses
specifically charged to the subscriber or purchase!?. ν
The methods of payment of the price, particularly as regards the
paying-up of shares which are not fully paid.
2.2.4. The procedure for the exercise of any right of pre-emption; the nego­ tiability of subscription rights; the treatment of subscription rights not exercised .
2.2.5. Period of the opening of the subscription for shares, and names of the organizations responsible for receiving the public's subscriptions.
2.2.6. Methods of and time-limits for delivery of the shares, possible creation of provisional certificates .
Names, addresses and description of the natural or legal persons under­ writing or guaranteeing the issue for the issuer. Where not all of the issue is underwritten or guaranteed, a statement of the portion not covered . '
Indication or estimate of the overall amount and/or of the amount per share of the charges relating to the issue operation, stating the total remuneration of the financial intermediaries, including the underwriting commission or margin , guarantee commission , placing commission or selling agent's commission. ,
Net proceeds accruing to the issuer from the issue and intended appli­ cation of such proceeds , e.g. , to finance the investment programme or to strengthen the issuer's financial position.
Information concerning the offer for subscription or sale to the public :
Description of the shares being offered, and in particular the number
of shares and nominal value per share, or, in the ^bsence of nominal £
value, the accounting par value or the total nominal value, the exact designation or class , and coupons attached . \
If shares of the same class are already listed on one or more stock
exchanges , indication of these stock exchanges . /
If shares of the same class have not been admitted to official listing but are dealt in on one or more other markets which are .subject to re­
gulation , are in regular operation and are recognized and open , indica­ tion of such markets .
Indication of any of the following which have occurred during the last financial year and the current financial year:
- public takeover offers by third parties in respect of the issuer's shares
- public takeover offers by the issuer in respect of other companies' shares. - -.
The price or exchange terms attaching to such offers and the outcome thereof are to be stated .
2.4. If, simultaneously or almost-simultaneously with the creation of the
shares being offered, shares of the same class are subscribed for or placed
privately or if shares of other classes are created for public or private placing, details are to be given of the nature of such operations and of the number and characteristics of the shares to which they relate.
Chapter 3 - General' information about the issuer and its capital ~ ■
Genera.l information about the issuer :
Name, registered office and principal administrative establishment if different from the registered office.
Date of incorporation and the length of life of the issuer, except where indefinite .
Legislation under wh'ich the issuer operates and legal form which it has adopted under that legislation .
of the issuer's objects and reference to the clause of the of association in which they are described.
of the register and of the entry number therein.
of where the documents concerning the issuer which are re­
ferred to in the prospectus may be inspected.
General information about the capital :
3.2.0. The amount of the issued capital, the number and classes of the shares of which it is composed with details of their principal characteristics; the part of the issued capital still to be paid up, with an indication of the number, or total nominal value, and the type of the shares not yet fully paid up, broken down where applicable according to the extent to which they have been paid up.
3.2.1 . Where there is authorized but unissued capital or an undertaking to increase the capital, inter alia in connection with convertible loans issued or subscription options granted , indication of :
- the amount of such authorized capital or capital increase and, where appropriate, the duration of the authorization;
- the categories of persons having preferential subscription rights for such additional portions of capital;
- the terms and arrangements for the share issue corresponding to such portions .
If there are shares not representing capital, the number and main characteristics of such shares are to be stated.
The amount of any convertible debt securities, exchangeable debt secu­ rities or debt securities with warrants, with an indication of the con­ ditions governing and the procedures for conversion, exchange or sub­ scription .
Conditions imposed by the memorandum and articles of association governing changes in the capital and in the respective rights of the various classes of shares, where such conditions are more stringent than is required by law.
Summary description of the operations during the three preceding years which have changed the amount of the issued capital and/or the number and classes of shares of which it is composed.
Number, book value and nominal value or, in the absence of a nominal value, the accounting par value of any of its own shares which the issuer or another company in which it has a direct or indirect holding of more than 50 % has acquired and is holding, if such securities do not appear as a separate item on the balance sheet.
3.2.6. As far as they are known to the issuer, indication of the rvatural or Legal persons who, directly or indirectly, severally or jointly, exer­ cise or could exercise control over the issuer, and particulars of the
proportion of ,the capital held giving a right to vote.
Joint control shall mean control exercised by more than one company or by more than one person having concluded an agreement which may lead to their adopting a common policy in respect of the issuer.
3.2.7. Insofar as they are known to the issuer, indication of the shareholders who, directly or indirectly, hold a proportion of the issuer's capital which the Member States may not fix at more than 20
3.2.8. If the issuer belongs to a group of undertakings, a brief description of the group and of the issuer's position within it.
Chapter 4 - Information concerning the issuer's activities *
The issuer 's principal activities :
Description of the issuer 's principal activities , stating the main categories of products sold and/or services performed.
Indication of any significant new products and/or activities. fv-
4.1.1. Breakdown of net turnover during the past three financial years by categories of activity and into geographical markets insofar as, taking account of the manner in which the sale of products and the provision
of services falling within the issuer's ordinary activities are organized, these categories and markets differ substantially from one another..
Location and size of the issuer 's principal establishments and summary information about real estate owned. Any establishment which accounts for more than 10 % of turnover or production shall be considered a prin­ cipal establishment.
For mining ,* extraction of hydrocarbons , quarrying and similar activities insofar as significant , description of deposits , estimate of economi­ cally exploitable reserves and expected period of working.
Indication of the periods and main terms of concessions and the eco­ nomic conditions fonworking them .
Indication of the progress of actual working.
4.1.4. Where the information given pursuant to headings 4.1.Q to 4.1.3 has been influenced by exceptional factors , that fact should be mentioned .
Summary information regarding the extent to which the issuer is depen­ dent, if at all, on patents or licences, industrial, commercial or finan­ cial contracts or new manufacturing processes, where such factors are of fundamental importance to the issuer 's business or profitability .
Information concerning policy on the research and development of new products and processes over the past three financial years, where signi- f i cant .
Information on any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have or have had a significant effect on the issuer's financial position in the recervt past .
Information on any interruptions in the issuer's business which may have or have had a significant effect on the issuer's financial position in the recent past „
Average numbers employed and changes therein over the past three financial years ,, if such changes are material , with , if possible , a breakdown of persons employed by rein categories of activity.
Description , with figures , of the main investments made , including interests such as shares , debt securities , etc ., in other undertakings
over the past three financial years and the months already elapsed of the current financial year. v
4.7.1. Information concerning the principal investments |ieing made with the exception of interests being acquired in other undertakings.
Distribution of these investments geographically {home and abroad).
,I Method of financing ( internal or external ). »
Information concerning the issuer 's principal futyre investments , with »<
the exception of interests to be acquired in other; undertakings on whicjp , its management bodies have already made firm commitments.
Chapter 5 - Information concerning the issuer's assets and liabilities, fman-^ cial position and profits and losses
5.1 . Accounts of the issuer : ♦
5.1.0. The last three balance sheets and profit and loss accounts drawn up by the company set out as a comparative table . The. notes on the annual accounts for the last financial year . - /
The draft prospectus must be filed with the competent authorities not _ more than 18 months after the end of the financial year to which the
last annual . accounts published relate . The competent authorities may extend that period in exceptional cases.
If the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts only , it shall include those accounts in the prospectus in accordance with heading 5.1.0 .
If the issuer prepares both own and consolidated annual accounts, it shall include both sets of accounts in the prospectus in accordance with heading 5.1.0 . However , the competent authorities may allow the issuer to include either the own or the consolidated annual accounts, on con-
dition that the accounts which are not included do not provide any signi-
5.1.2. The profit or loss per share of the issuing company, for the financial
year, arising out of the company's ordinary activities, after tax, for %
the last three financial years, where the companyVjncludes its own anni^l accounts in the prospectus . [ ■'
Where the issuer includes only consolidated annual, accounts in the pro­ v
spectus , it shall indicate the consolidated profit or loss per share , for the financial year, for the last three financial years. This infor­ mation shall appear in addition to that provided in accordance with the preceding subparagraph where the issuer also includes its own annual accounts in tjie prospectus .
If in the course of the above-mentioned period of three financial years
the number of shares in the issuing company has changed as a result,
for example, of an increase or decrease in capital or the re-arrangement
or splitting of shares, the profit or loss per share referred to in the first and second paragraph above shall be adjusted to make them comparable;
in that event the adjustment formulae used shall be disclosed.
5.1.3. The amount of the dividend per share for the last three financial years, adjusted, if necessary, to make it comparable in accordance with the third subparagraph of heading 5.1.2 .
5.1.4. where more than nine months have elpsed since the end of the financial year to which the Last published own annual and/or consolidated annual accounts relate, an interim financial statement covering at least the first six months shall be included in the prospectus or appended to it.. If such an interim financial statement is unaudited, that fact must be
stated .
Where . the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts , the competent
authorities shall decide whether the interim financial statement to be
submitted must Jae consolidated or not . ,
Any significant change which has occurred since tfoe end of the last < ^v
financial year or the preparation of the interim financial statement
must be described in a note inserted in the prosftfctus or appended thereto
5.1.5. If the own or consolidated annual accounts do no1|vcomply with the Council
Directives on undertakings' annual accounts and do not give a true and^ IS
fair view of the issuer's assets and liabilities,ffinancial position ar^
profits and losses, more detailed and/or additional information must be} given .
5.1.6. A table showing the sources and application of funds over the past three financial years . il '
5.Z. ^ Individual details listed below relating to the undertakings in which
the issuer holds a proportion of the capital likely to have a significant effect on the assessment of its own assets and liabilities, financial position or profits and losses .,
The items of information listed below must be given in any event for every . undertaking in which the issuer has a direct or indirect participating
interest, if the book value of that participating interest represents at least 10 7. of the capital and reserves or accounts for at least 10 %
of the net profit or loss of the issuer or, in the case of a group, if the book value of that participating interest represents at least 10 %
of the consolidated net assets or accounts for at least 10 % of the consolidated net profit or loss of the group.
The items of information Listed below need not be given provided that the issuer proves that its holding is of a purely provisional nature.
Similarly , the information required under points ( e ) and ( f ) may be omitted where the undertaking in which a participating interest is held does not publish its annual accounts.
Pending subsequent co-ordination of provisions relating to consolidated annual accounts, the Member States may authorize the competent authori­ ties to permit the omission of the information prescribed in points (d) to (j) if the annual accounts of the undertakings in which the partici­ pating interests are held are consolidated into the group annual accounts or if the value attributable to the interest under . the equity method is , disclosed , in the annual, accounts , provided that , in the opinion of the ] competent authorities, the omission of that information is not likely tq
mislead the public with regard to the facts and circumstances, knowledge* Ji: ^
of which is essential for the assessment of the security in question.' , I;
The information provided for under points ( g ) and i j ) may be omitted
in the opinion of the competent authorities, such Emission does not
ti mislead investors. f
(a) Name and registered office of the undertaking.
(b) Field of activity.
(c) Proportion of capital held .
loss arising out of
the last
(g) Value at which the issuer obliged to publish the prospectus shows
shares held in its accounts .
(h) Amount still to be paid up on shares held."
(i) Amount of dividends received in the course of the last financial
year in respect of shares held.
(j) Amount of the debts owed to and by the issuer with regard to the
financial year .
5.3. , (Individual details relating to the undertakings not referred to in heading 5.2 in which the issuer holds at least 10 % of the capital. These details may be omitted when they are of negligible importance for the purpose of the objective set in Article 5 of this Directive:
( a ) Name and registered office of the undertaking . (b) Proportion of capital held.
5.4. Where the prospectus comprises consolidated annual accounts/ disclosure:
of the consolidation principles applied . These shall ibe described explicitly where the Member State has no laws governing the conso­
lidation pf annual accounts or where such principles are not in;
conformity with such laws or with a generally accepted method in
use in the Member State where the offer is made; X''-.
(b) of the names and registered offices of the undertakings included in the consolidation, where that information is important for the pur­
pose of assessing the assets and liabilities, t^ie financial position and the profits and losses of the issuer. It|')s sufficient to
distinguish details are
(c)- for each of
them by a sign in the list of undertakings of which
required in heading 5.2 ; I
»".V the undertakings referred to in ( b ):
proportion of third-party interests, if annual accounts
- the total
, are consolidated globally;
- the proportion of the consolidation calculated on the basis of interests, if consolidation has been effected on a pro rata basis.
5.5. Where the issuer is a dominant undertaking forming a group with one or more dependent undertakings, the details provided for in Chapters 4 and 7 shall be given for that issuer and group.
The competent authorities may permit the provision of that information for the issuer alone or for the group alone, provided that the details which are not provided are not material.
financial year under any heading whatsoever, and charged to overheads or the profit appropriation account , to members of the administrative , management and supervisory bodies, these being total amounts for each category of body.
The total remuneration paid and benefits in kind granted to all members of the administrative, management and supervisory bodies of the issuer
by all the dependent undertakings with which it forms a group must be indicated .
in the issuing à>
5.6. If certain information provided for under Schedule A is given in the annual accounts provided in accordance with this Chapter, it need not be repeated .
Chapter 6 - Information concerning administration, management and supervision
Names, addresses and functions in the issuing company of. the following persons and an indication of the principal activities performed by them outside that company where these are significant with respect to that company :
( a ) members of the administrative , management or supervisory bodies ;
(b) partners with unlimited liability, in the case of a limited partner­ ship with a share capital ;
(c) founders, if the company has been established for fewer than five years . ' '
Interests of the members of the administrative , management and super­
paid and' benefits in kind granted , during the last completed
6.2.1 . Total number of shares in the issuing company held by the members of its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and options granted
to them on the company's shares.
6.2.2. Information about the nature and extent of the interests of members
of the administrative , management and, supervi sory bodies in transactions effected by the issuer which are unusual in their nature or conditions
( such as purchases outside normal activity , acquisition or disposal of fixed asset items) during the preceding financial year and the current financial year. Where such unusual transactions were concluded in the course of previous financial years and have not been definitively con­ cluded, information on those transactions must also be given.
6.2.3. total of all the outstanding leans granted by the issuer to the persons referred to in heading 6.1 (a) and also of any guarantees provided
by the issuer for their benefit.
6.3. Schemes for involving the staff in the capital of the, issuer.
Chapter 7 - Information concerning the recent development and prospects of the i ssuer i
Except in the event of a derogation granted by the competent authorities, general information on the trend of the issuer's business since the end of the financial year to which the last published annual accounts relate, in particular: , .
the most significant recent trends in production, sales and stocks and the state of the order book, and .
- recent trends in costs and selling prices.
Except in the event of a derogation granted by the competent authorities, information on the issuer's prospects for at least the current financial year .
Names and addresses of the natural or legal persons responsible for the prospectus or, as the case may be, for certain parts of it with, in the
latter case, an indication of those parts.
Declaration by those responsible , as referred to in heading 1.1 , that , to the best of their knowledge, the information given in that part of the prospectus for which they are responsible is in accordance with the facts and contains no omissions likely to affect the import of the pro­ spectus .
Names, addresses and qualifications of the official auditors who have audited the annual accounts for the preceding three financial years in accordance with national law.
Statement that the annual accounts have been audited . If audit reports N on the annual accounts have been refused by the official auditors or if they contain qualifications, such refusal or such qualifications must
be reproduced in full , and the reasons given.
Indication of other information in the prospectus which has been audited by the auditors.
Chapter 1 - Information concerning those responsible for the prospectus and the auditing of accounts
Chapter 2 - Information concerning loans and the offer for sale to the public of debt securities
2.1 . Conditions of the loan :
2.1.0 . The nominal amount of the loan ; if this amount is not to this effect must be made.
ihe nature, number and numbering of the debt securities and the de­ nominations.
2.1.1. Except in the case of continuous issues, the issue and redemption prices and the nominal interest rate; if several interest rates are provided for, an indication of the conditions for changes in the rate.
2.1.2. Procedures for the allocation of any other advantages; the method of calculating such advantages. I
2.1.3. Tax on the income from the debt securities withheld at source in the country of origin and/or the country where the offer is made.
Indication as to whether the issuer assumes respomsibi lity for the withr
holding of tax at source. -
2.1.5. The financial organizations which are the paying agents of the issuer in the Member State where the offer takes place.
2.1.6. Currency of the loan'i; if the loan is denominated in units of account, the contractual status of these; currency option.
<a) Period of the loan and any interim due dates.
(b) The date from which interest becomes payable and the due dates for
(c) The time limit on the validity of claims to interest and repayment
of principal.
(d) Procedures and time limits for delivery of the debt securities,
possible creation of provisional certificates.
Arrangements for the procedures.
amortization of , '
the repayment
Except in the case of continuous issues, an indication of yield. The
method whereby that yield is calculated shall be described in summary form .
Indication of the resolutions, authorizations and approvals by virtue of which the debt securities have been or will be created and/or issued.
Number of debt securities which have been or will pe created and/or ; issued, if predetermined. £>
Nature and scope of the guarantees, sureties and commitments intended
to ensure that the loan will be duly serviced as regards both the re­ payment of the debt securities and the payment of interest.
Indication of the places where the public may have -access to the texts of the contracts relating to these guarantees, sureties and commitments.
Organization of trustees or of any other representation for the body of debt security holdersL '
Name and function and description and head office of the representative
of the debt security holders, the main conditions of such representation 4
and in particular the conditions under which the representative may be re placed.
Indication of where the public may have access to the contracts relating to these forms of representation.
Mention of clauses subordinating the loan to other debts of the issuer already contracted or to be contracted.
Type of operation and amount thereof.
Names, addresses and description of the natural :|r legal persons underwriting or guaranteeing the issue for the issuer. Where not
all of the issue is underwritten or guaranteed, | statement of the
Indication of the legislation under which the debt securities have
been created and of the courts competent in the event of litigation. I
Indication as to whether the debt securities are registered or bearer
Any restrictions on the free transferability of the debt securities.
Information concerning the offer for subscription or sale to the
The stock exchanges where admission to official listing is or will s Î*
be sought .
portion not covered . $
If the issue was or is being made simultaneously on the markets of
two or more States and if a tranche has been or is being reserved * for certain of these , indication of any such tranche .
Information concerning the issue of the debt securities being offered to the public :
The procedure for the exercise of any right of pre-emption; the negotiability of subscription rights; the treatment of subscription rights not exercised .
2.4.1 . Method of payment of the issue or offer price .
2.4.2. Except in the case of continuous debt security issues, period of the opening of the issue or offer and any possibilities of early closure.
2.4.3 . Indication of the organizations responsible for receiving the public 's subscriptions .
2.4.4 . Reference , where necessary , to the fact that the subscriptions may be reduced .
2.4.5. Except in the case of continuous debt security issues, indication of the net proceeds of the loan .
2.4.6 . Purpose of the issue and intended application of its proceeds .
Chapter 3 - General information about the issuer and its capital 1
3.1 . General information about the issuer :
3.1.0. Name, registered office and principal administrative establishment if
different from the registered office. 4
3.1.1. Date of incorporation and the length of life of the issuer, except where indefinite .
3.1.2. Legislation under which the iss,uer operates and legal form which it has adopted under that legislation .
3.1.3. Indication o"f the issuer's objects and reference to the clause in the memorandum of association in which they are described.
3.1.4 . Indication of the register and of the entry number therein .
Indication of where the documents concerning the issuer which are referred to in the prospectus may be inspected.
The amount of the issued capital and the number and classes of the securities of which it is composed with details of their principal characteristics .
The part of the issued capital still to be paid up, with an indication of the number , or total nominal value , and the type of securities' not yet fully paid up, broken down where applicable according to the extent to which they have been paid up.
The amount of any convertible debt securities, exchangeable debt securities or debt securities with warrants, with an indication of the conditions governing and the procedures for conversion, exchange or subscription .
If the issuer belongs to a group of undertakings, f brief
description of the group and of the issuer 's position within it ." î
Number, book value anp nominal value or, in the absence of a
nominal value, the accounting par value of any of its own
shares which the issuer or another company in which the issuer \
has a direct or indirect holding of more than 50% has acquired and is holding, if such securities do not appear as a separate item on the balance sheet, insofar as they represent a significant part of the issued capital .
 Chapter 4 - Information concerning the issuer's activities I
The issuer 's principal activities :
Description of the issuer 's principal activities , stating the main categories of products sold and/ or services performed .
Indication of any significant new products and/or activities.
Net turnover during the past two financial years .
Location and size of the issuer 's principal establishments and summary information about real estate owned. Any establishment which accounts for more than 10 % of turnover or production shall be considered a principal establishment.
4.1.3. For mining, extraction of hydrocarbons, quarrying and similar activities insofar as significant , description of deposits , estimate of economically exploitable reserves and expected period of working.
Indication of the periods and main terms of concessions and the economic conditions for working them .
Indication of the progress of actual working.
Where the information given pursuant to headings 4.1.0 to 4.1 . ill! has been influenced by exceptional factors, that fact should be mentioned.
Summary information regarding the extent to which the issuer is dependent , if at all, on patents or licences, industrial, commercial or financial contracts or new manufacturing processes, where such factors are of fun­ damental importance to the issuer 's business or profitability .
Information on any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have or have had a significant effect on the issuer's financial position in the recent past .,
Description , with figures , of the main investments made , including interests such as shares , debt securities , etc ., in other undertakings , over the past three financial years and the months already elapsed of the current financial year.
Information concerning the principal investments being made with the exception of interests being acquired in other undertakings.
Distribution of these investments geographically (home and abroad). Method of financing ( internal or external ).
Information concerning the issuer's principal future investments, with the exception of interests to be acquired in other undertakings, on which its management bodies have already made firm commitments.
5 - Information concerning the issuer 's assets and liabilities , financial
The last two balance sheets and profit and loss accounts drawn up by the issuer set out as a comparative table. The notes on the annual accounts for the last financial year .
The draft prospectus must be filed with the competent authorities not more than 18 months after the end of the financial year to which the
last annual accounts published relate. The competent authorities may extend that period in exceptional cases.
If the issuer "prepares consolidated annual accounts only , it shall in­ clude those accounts in the prospectus in accordance with heading 5.1.0.
position and profits and losses Accounts of the issuer :
position and profits tion must be given .
Indication as at the of the following , if
and losses , more detailed and/ or additional informa­
most recent date possible ( which must be stated ) material :
If the issuer prepares both own and consolidated annual accounts, it shall include both sets of accounts in the prospectus in accordance with heading 5.1.0 . However , the competent authorities may allow the issuer to include either the own or the consolidated annual accounts,
on condition that the accounts which are not included do not provide any significant additional information .
5.1.2. Where more than nine months have elapsed since the end of the financial year to which the last published own annual and/or consolidated annual accounts relate, an interim financial statement covering at least the first six months shall be included in the prospectus or appended to it.
If the interim financial statement is unaudited, that fact must be stated.
Where the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts, the competent authorities shall decide whether the interim financial statement to be submitted must be consolidated or not .
Any significant change which has occurred since the end of the last financial year or the preparation of the aforementioned interim financial statement must be described in a note inserted in or appended to the prospectus .
5.1.3. If the own annual or (consolidated annual accounts do not comply with
the Council Directives on undertakings' annual accounts and do not give
a true and fair view of the issuer's assets and liabilities, financial •
- the total amount of any loan capital outstanding, distinguishing between loans guaranteed ( by the provision of security or otherwise ,
by the issuer or by
third parties ) and loans not guaranteed ,
Individual detai Is listed below relating to the undertakings in which
the issuer holds a proportion of the capital likely to have a significant effect on the assessment of its own assets and liabilities, financial position or profits and-lasses.-" -
- the total amount of all other borrowings and indebtedness in the
, nature of borrowing, distinguishing between guaranteed and unguaranteed
borrowings and debts ,
- the total amount of any contingent liabilities*
An appropriate negative statement shall be given , where appropriate , in the absence of any such loan capital, borrowings and indebtedness and contingent liabilities.
If the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts,' the principles laid down in heading 5.1.1 shall apply . ^
As a general rule, no. account should be taken of liabilities between
undertakings within the same group; a statement to that effect being made , if necessary. . ,
1,5. A table showing the- sources and application of funds over the past three financial years. ,
The items of information listed below must be given in any event for /
every undertaking in which the issuer has a direct or indirect partici­
pating interest, if the book value of that participating interest re­ . presents at least 10 % of the capital and reserves or accounts for at least 10 % of the net profit or loss of the issuer, or in the case of
a group,, if the book value of that participating interest represents at least 10 % of the consolidated net assets or accounts for at least 10 %
of the consolidated net profit or loss of the group.
The items of information Listed below need not be given provided that the issuer proves that its holding is of a purely provisional nature.
Similarly, the information required under points (e) and (f) may be omitted where the undertaking in which a participating interest is held does not publish its annual accounts.
Pending co-ordination of provisions relating to consolidated annual accounts, the Member States may authorize the competent authorities to permit the omission of the information prescribed in points ( d ) to ( h ) if the annual accounts of the undertakings in which the participating interests are held are consolidated into the group; annual accounts or if the value attributable to the interest under thf equity method is disclosed in the annual accounts, provided that in- the opinion of the
competent authorities, the omission of that information is not likely tq ' "\
mislead the public with regard to the facts and circumstances knowledge of which is essential for the assessment of the security in question,
( a ) Name and registered office of the (b) Field of activity.
( c ) Proportion of capital .held .
(f) Profit or loss arising out of ordinary activities, after tax, for the last financial year .
(g) Amount still to be paid up on shares held.
(h) Amount of dividends received in the course of the last financial year in respect of shares held.
When the prospectus comprises consolidated annual accounts , disclosure :
( a ) of the consolidation principles applied . These shall be described explicitly where the Member State has no laws governing the consoli­ dation of annual accounts or where such principles are not in con­ formity with such laws or with a generally accepted method in use
in the Member State where the offer is made;
(b) of the names and registered offices of the undertakings included in
the consolidation, where that information is jmportant for the pur­ pose of assessing the assets and liabi lities,ithe financial positiqn
and the profits and losses of. the issuer. Itis . V
distinguish them by a sign in the list of companies for which detail
are required in heading 5.2 ;
X. 'V' (c) for each of the undertakings referred to in (S?): ^
are consolidated globally ;
- the proportion of the consolidation calculated on the basis of interests , if consolidation has been effected on a pro rata basis .
Where the issuer is a dominant undertaking forming a group with one or more dependent undertakings, the details provided for in Chapters 4 and 7 shall be given for that issuer and group.
The competent authorities may permit the provision of that information
for the issuer alone or for the group alone, provided that the details which are not provided are not material.
If certain information provided for under Schedule B is given in the annual accounts provided in accordance with this Chapter, it need not be repeated .
- the total proportion of third-party interests, if annual accounts
,'is sufficient to Ii
Chapter 6 - Information concerning administration, management and supervision
Names , addresses and functions in the issuing udnertaking of the following persons, and an indication of the principal activities per­ formed by them outside that undertaking where these are significant with respect to that undertaking :
( a ) members of the administrative , management or supervisory bodies ;
(b) partners with unlimited liability, in the case of a limited partner­ ship with a share capital .
Chapter 7 - Information concerning the recent development 'and prospects of the issuer
Except in the event of a derogation granted by the competent authorities^
general information on the trend of the issuer's business since the end of the financial year to which the last published annual accounts relate^ in particular: v >
- - the most significant recent trends in production, sales and stocks and the state of the order book, and
- recent trends in costs and selling prices.
Except in the event of a derogation granted by the competent authorities , - information on the issuer's prospects for at least the current financial year .
has adopted under that legislation. , £
The amount of the issued capital and the number and classes of the securities of which it is composed with details of iiheir principal
The part of the issuedi capital still to be paid up, with an indication of the number, or tota'l nominal value, and the type of the securities
. not yet fully paid up, broken down where applicable according to the extent to which they have been paid tip.
Indication of the principal holders of the capital.
Names, addresses and functions in the issuing body of the following persons, and an indication of the principat activities performed by them outside that body where these are significant with respect to that body, and also the functions held:
(a) members of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies; »
(b) partners with unlimited liability, in the case of a limited partner ship with a share capital.
Chapter 1 - General information about the issuer
1.1. Name, registered office and principal administrative establishment if different from the registered office .
1.2. Date of incorporation and length of life of the issuer, except where indefinite . \ v
1.3. ' Legislation under which the issuer operates and legal form which it
The company 's objects . If the issue of certificates representing shares is not the sole object; of the company, the nature of its other activi­ ties must be described, those of a purely trustee nature being dealt with separately .
A summary of the annual accounts relating to the last completed finan­ cial year.
Where more than nine months have elapsed since the end of the last financial year to which the last published own annual and/or consolidated annual accounts relate, an interim financial statement covering at least the first six months shall be included in the prospectus or appended to it. If the interim financial statement is unaudited, that fact must be stated .
Where the issuer prepares consolidated annual accounts, the competent authorities shall decide whether the interim financial statement to be submitted must be consolidated or not .
Any significant change which has occurred since th$ end of the last
financial year or the preparation of the interim financial statement must be described in a note inserted in the prospectus or appended thereto. if -
Chapter 2 - Information on the certificates themselves ι
Indication of the rules governing the issue of the certificates and mention of the date and place of their publication.
2.1.0. Exercise of and benefit from the rights attaching to the original secu-- rities, in particular voting rights - conditions on which the issuer of the certificates may exercise such rights, and measures envisaged to
obtain the instructions of the certificate holders - and the right to share in profits and any liquidation surplus.
2.1.1 . Bank or other guarantees attached to the certificates and intended to
underwrite the issuer's obligations. i
2.1.2. Possibility of obtaining the conversion of the certificates into original securities and procedure for such conversion.
2.2. The amount of the commissions and costs to be borne by the holder in connection with :
- the issue of the certificate ; i
- the payment of the coupons; .
- the creation -of additional. certificates;
- the exchange of the certificates for original securities. ,
2.3. Transferability of the certificates :
(a)The be,
stock exchanges where admission to official listing is, or will sought;
restrictions on the free transferability of the certificates. '·\'^
2.4. Indication of the tax arrangements with regard to any taxes and charges to be borne by the holders and levied in the countries where the certi­ ficates are issued .
2.5. Indication of the legislation under which the certificates have been i.
created and of the courts competent in the event of litigation.
