foljowin# the temporary widening of the margins of "fluctuation for the currencies of certain Member
States, as last amended by Regulation . iEI.C) No 2497/74 (;), and in particular Article .fTfiVieof ;
Whereas the monetaiv compensatory amounts intro­ . <Iucctl' by Regulation (EEC) No 974/71 were fixed bv Commission Régulation (KFC) No 254"/74(î) ot 4
■^/ Regulation (EEC) No 1463/73 during the period to • .(/&October1974showthatthediffeiencchaschanged \ by more than one point from the percentage taken as
v Whereas under Aiticle 3. of Regulation (EEC) No 974/71, the monetary compensatory amounts must be ■.-.-.altered if the difference referred to in Article 2 ( I ) of • that Regulation changes by one point or more from the percentage taken as a basis lor the pi etc. ding dcter-
Offictrtf Foimi.il of tho Liimj-uMn Cummin
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community ;
I 7 - Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No ,v fV. 974/71 (') of 12 May 1971 on cottain measures of • •= " ' conjimetural policy ' to he- taken in agriculture
a b.tsis when the monetary compensatory amounts were last fixed ; • •
Whereas, however, in the specific case of Italy, Article*" 4 (2) of the said Regulation means tli.it taking into account the trend ot spot market rates no compensa­ tory amount is fixed except for wine products ; - whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No 29.58/73 (9) of 31 October lt>73, as last amended by Regulation
(EEC) No 1847/74 fixed a number of representa­ tive conversion rates for the Italian lira to be applied in agrieultuie ; whereas, for wine, the effects of these rates will in certain matters not be felt until 16
December 1.974 ; whereas the activating prices appli­
cable in Italy have consequently been fixed at a lower
level than would revsult from the use* of these represen­ tative* rates ; whereas this should be borne in mind in fixing the monetary compensatory amounts,
v' ■' •••' : altered in accordance with the change in this ditte-
: mination ; whereas the compensatory amounts must Tepee
• Whereas detailed rules for the application of Regula- ®'on (EEC) No 974/71 were laid down by Regulation (EEC) No 1463/73 (6)~of 30 May 1973, as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2521/74 ; whereas the spot market rufrs recorded for the Italian lii.tTVursuant to
REGULATION (EEC) No OI THF. COMMISSION "of October 197-4
■ altering the monetary compensatory amounts
 Hhereas the monetary compensatory amounts for milk and milk products, as calculated a.t- present, ?re derived from the compensatory amounts for "butter a.nd skinned milk powder; vrhTear., since manufacturing costs pre tal into account in respect of the latter products, the resulting amount for fresh milk in bulk, because manufacturing costs are lower here, is too
high; whereas the monetary compensatory amounts for this product- and. for •*
certain compound animal feeds should therefore be adjusted accordingly;
Whereas the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance vv
the Opinions of the I-'anrgerp.ent Committees for Cereals,
i'Iilk and wilk Products- f
The amounts shown m the columns Deutschland, BLEU gjid Nederland. in Annex I to Reflation (HKC) Ho 2r47/74 for the products listed in Annex I B to "this Regulation are replaced by the amounts shovm for those Member States in the said Annex I B.
Annex II to Régulation (EEC) KO 2547/74 is replaced b.y Annex II to this Régulation.
Prance , Ireland , Italia and United Kingdom in Annex I to
The columns
Regulation (EEC) NO 2^47/74 are replaced by the columns appearing in Annex I A to this Regulation.
This Reflation sha.ll enter into force on 21 October 1974.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable *
For the Commission
