Paragraph 4 of Article 17 of Regulation 359/67/EEC provides that when an export refund is fixed in advance a corrective amount shall "be applied. However, experience has shown that the systematic application of correc­ tives does not always meet the needs of the export market. It is proposed that in this case a different approach should "be taken.
It is at present the case that the measures provided for in Article 21 of Regulation 359/67 and defined by Council Regulation (EEC) Mo 2737/73
(OJ No L 282, p. 13) should only he triggered if the cif price exceeds the threshold by at least 2 per cent. This arrangement has been shown,
in the framework of Community exports, to be insufficient to cope with
a situation of high prices on the world market. In fact, a risk of dis­ turbance could exist as soon as the world market price approaches the threshold price . In addition , in the context of exports , the cif price established for Community ports is only one of the criteria which can
serve in assessing the situation on the world market. Other prices or market questions should equally be taken into account . In this circumstance , it
is proposed to adapt Article 21 to the requirements of a better management of the market.
 REGULATION (EEC) No ftA OF THE COUNCIL of
amending Regulation No 359/67/eEC on the common organisation of the market in rice
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
and in particular Article 43 thereof}
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission}
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament
Whereas Article 17(4) of Council Regulation No 359/67/EEC ^ of 25 July 1967
on the common organisation of the market in rice , as last amended "by Regulation (EEC) No 1129/74 1 provides that a oorrective amount is to "bo applied to export refunds on rice which are fixed in advance; whereas experience has shown that exigence© of the export market do not always require the systematic appli­ cation of corrective amounts} whereas provision should therefore to made for a different docision to be taken in such cases}
whereas the object of Article 21 of Regulation No 359/67/EEC is to prevent disturbance of the Community market and to ensure its stability in the event
of major price increases on the world market} whereas a need to take appropri­ ate measures is considered to exist where the cif price is higher than the threshold price } whereas the threat of disturbance of the internal Community market may in fact already exist where quotations and prices on the world market are close to the threshold price} whereas provision should therefore bo made for taking appropriate measures where the quotations and prices on the world market are very close to the threshold price}
The text of Article 17(4) of Regulation No 359/67/E2C is replaced, by the following :
"4» However, as regards the exportation of products specified in Article l(l)(a) and (b), the refund applicable on the day on which the appli­ cation for a licence is lodged, adjusted for the threshold price
which will be in force during the month of exportation , shall , if the ' applicant submits a request to that effect at the time when he applies for the licence, and not later than 13 hours, be applied to export to be effected during the period of validity of the licence. In such case, a corrective amount , which may be fixed at the same time as the refund and under the same procedure , shall be applied to the refund ; however , if rood arises, the Commission may, at the request of a Member State
The Ml.
or on its own initiative , take a different decision in the intervening period .
The provisions of the precoding subparagraph may be applied in whole or in part to any of the products specified in Article l(l)(c) and in Annex B. "
text of Article 21 of Regulation No 359/67/EEC is replacod by the following:
Whero the quotations or prices on the world market for one or more of the products specified in Article l(l)(a) and (b) are very close to the level of the threshold price, and that situation is likely to continue and to deteriorate , thereby disturbing or threatening to disturb the Community market , appropriate measures may be taken .
The Council, acting in accordance with voting procedure laid down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty on the proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for tho application of this Article .
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be Adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26."
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publica­ tion in the Official Journal of the European ComrtrunitieB>
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels . Ibr the Council The President
Proposal for a REGULATION ( EEC') OP THE COUNCIL
amending Regulation No 359/67/EEC on the common organisation of the market in rice
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
Paragraph 4 of Article 17 of Regulation 359/^7/ESG provides that when an export refund is fixed in advance a corrective amount shall be applied. However, experience has shown that the systematic application of correc­ tives does not always meet the needs of the export market. It is proposed that in this case a different approach should be taken.
It is at present the case that the measures provided for in Article 21 of Regulation 359/67 and defined by Council Regulation (EEC) No 2737/73
(OJ No L 282, p. 13) should only be triggered if the cif price exceeds the threshold by at least 2 per cent. This arrangement has been shown,
in the framework of Community exports, to be insufficient to cope with
a situation of high prices on the world market. In fact, a risk of dis­ turbance could exist as soon as the world market price approaches the threshold price . In addition , in the context of exports , the cif price established for Community ports is only one of the criteria which can
serve in assessing the situation on the world market. Other prices or market questions should equally be taken into account . In this circumstance , it
is proposed to adapt Article 21 to the requirements of a better management of the market.
amending Regulation Ho 359/67/EEC on "the common organistion of the market in rice
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 43 thereof;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission;
Eaving regard to the Opinion''' of the European Parliament;
Whereas Article 17(4) of Council Regulation Eo 359/c7/EEC^of 25 July 19^7 on the common organization of the market in rice, as last amended by Regolation (EEC)
ITo 1129/74^1 provides that a corrective amount is to "be applied to export refunds on rice which are fixed in advanceJ whereas experience has shown that conditions on the export market do not always require the systematic application of corrective amounts; whereas provision should therefore be made to allow different decisions
to be taken in such cases;
Whereas the object of Article 21 of Regulation Bo 359/67/EEC is to prevent dis­ turbance of the CoEEzmity market and to ensure its stability in the event of 'major price increases on the world market; whereas there is no provision for appropriate measures to be taken until the level of the cif price lias risen above that of the threshold price; whereas the threat of disturbance of the internal Community market may in fact already exist when quotations or prices on the world market have reach; a level olose to that of the threshold price; whereas provision should therefore be made for appropriate measures to be taken when quotations or prices on the world market have reached such a level ;
The text of Article 17(4) of Regulation Ho 359/67/ESC is replaced "by the following : ■
However, as regards th'o exportation of "products specified in Article
l(l)(a) and (b), the refund applicable on the day on which the appli­
cation for a licence is lodged, adjusted for the threshold price
which v;ill bo in force during the month of exportation , shall , if the
applicant submits a request to that effect "before 13*00 hours on "the day on whi.oh he applies for the lioonco# "be applied to en export operation to be earried out o any time ' during the period of validity of the licence . In such case ,
a corrective amount , which may be'1 fixed at the same time as the refund
and under the same procedure , shall be applied to the refund ; however , in cases .of urgent need, the Commission may, at the request of a Kembor Staie
or on its oim initiative ,, take a different decision in the intervening ■, .. period .
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph may be applied in whole or in part to any of the products specified'in Article l(l)(c) and in Annex B."
text of Article 21 of Regulation Ho 359/67/SEC is . replaced by the following:
Where the quotations or prices on the world/market for one or more of the products specified in Article l(l)(a) and (b) becvo reached a level oloso to tha-£ of the threshold price , and that situation . is likely to continue and to deteriorate , thereby disturbing or threatening to- disturb the Community
market ,- appropriate measures may be taken . • ;
The Council , acting in accordance with the voting procedure laid down in Article 43(2) of the Treaty on a proposal from the Commission, shall adopt general rules for the application of this Article.
Detailed rules for the application of this Article shall be adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26.."
The
 This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publica­ tion in the Official Journal of the European Commimities«
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels , For the Council The President
