Official Journal of the European Communities
on the issue of an invitation to tender for the costs of delivering skimmed-milk powder as food aid
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community ;
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 804/68' (') of 27 June 196k' 011 the common organiza­
tion of the market in milk and milk products, as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No and in particular Articles 7 (5) and Article 28 thereof ;
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No 3582/73 (3) of 28 December 1973 laying down general rules for the supply of skimmed-milk powder as food aid to the countries of the Sahcl and Ethiopia , provides for 14 000 metric tons of skimmed-milk powder to be supplied to those countries ;
, Whereas, Niger and-Uppe-r Volta haw requested the supply, as emergency aid , of 330 metric tons of skimmed-milk powder ; whereas
the costs of delivering thas&supply must be put out to tender as provided in Commission Regulation
(EEC) No 192/74 (4) of 18 January 1974 on the supply of skimmed-milk powder as food aid to the countries of the Sahel and Ethiopia ;
Whereas Council Regulation (EEC) No 2721 /72 (5) of 19 December 1972 on the supply of skimmed-milk powder as food aid, as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 2700/73 (b), provides inter alia for 6 000 metric tons of skimmed-milk powder to be made available to the International Committee of the 'lied Cross
Whereas the ICRC has requested the supply, as emer­ gency aid , of SO metric tons of skimmed-milk powder comprisingrJXtro-etri 01K for Niger and 20 rn-e;-rte tens– for – pp?F=V©ka- ; whereas the corresponding costs of delivery must be put out to tender in accor­ dance with Commission Regulation (EEC) No 1885/73 (7) of 12 July 1973 concerning invitations to tender for the costs of delivery, as food aid , of skimmed-milk powder held by the intervention agen­ cies ;
Whereas, having regard to the stocks held by the inter­ vention agencies and to the situation of the market in
skimmed-milk powder, it appears that the abovemen- tioned quantities of skimmed-milk powder could be supplied by the French intervention
agencl^#; whereas, furthermore, in view of the small quantity .to be delivered to the ICRC and of the fact that it isifiUeiided for A/ 1 a single invita­ tion to tender should be issued for the costs of de­ livering to the ICRC and to j> ;
Whereas the terms of delivery and of taking over the skimmed-milk powder should, however, be specified ;
Whereas the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the Opinion of the Manage­ ment Committee for Milk and Milk Products,
Tenders shall be invited in accordance with Regula­ tion (EEC) No 192/74 for the cost of delivering
350 metric tons'for Niger, to be delivered
to Zinder via Apapa, including 20 metric tons for the ICRC *
1 120 mefric-J£)ns for Upper Volta^to-be delivered as follows :
680 metficlous to Bobo-DioulassoVia^Abidjan, inclifding 20 metric tons for the ICRC.
The skimmed-milk powder shall be removed
; from the French intervention agency ;
The intervention agenttft^f shall procure that the packing is marked in letters at least 2 cm high :
Officio! Journal of the European Communities 13. 3. 74
on 330 metric tons :
on 20 metric tons for the ICRC :
a red cross J5 cm by 15 cm and the words: i
, in the case of lot B : *0*0 100 metric tons :
on 20 metric tons for tli&^CRC :
a red cross 15 cm by 15 cm and the words:
The tenders shall be for the delivery costs incurred between removal of the goods from the storage depots of the relevant interventions agencies and- their delivery at the places of destination specified in Article 1, including unloading costs.
Delivery shall be completed when the goods actually arrive at the place of destination.
TheVintervention agencJ^S
W responsible for the invitation to
tender provided for in the previous Articles. \ *
1. The time limit for the submission of tenders shall be (fc Ppri L 1974 at 12 noon.
2. Loading shall take place as soon as possible and be completed on 20 r'Jo.i 1974 at the latest.
T* he. I- r £ c h Government shall ensure - that "the successful tenderer :
notifies the Commission , the country of destina -v tion, the representative of the intervention agency at the place of destination and the ICRC represen­ tative, as regards the respective quantities with which they are concerned :
;– 10 days before the goods' expected date of arrival, of the means of transport to be used to carry the goods to the place of destination, the means of shipment to be used during the inter­ mediary phases, the date of loading and the quantity and quality of the goods as recorded on shipment from the Community ;
– at least two days in advance, of the date of arrival of the goods at the place of destination ;
has separate bill of loading made out for ICRC supplies and for Sahel country supplies.
The intervention agency shall take all measures
necessary to ensure that the 330 metric tons for Niger
4or which contracts are awarded, are transported rapidly from the
place of destination to the distribution points.
It shall negotiate private contracts for the costs of such transport on the best terms possible, account being taken of prevailing transport terms and of the urgency of delivery.
2. The distribution points provided for in para­ graph 1 shall be designated by the authorities of the recipient countries and shall be communicated by the Commission to the intervention agency concerned.
When the delivery provided for in Article 3 has been completed, the certificate to the effect that delivery has been taken of the quantity of goods taken over from the intervention agency shall be issued :
– in the case of ICRC supplies by the ICRC recep­ tion agent ; . '
– in the case of the other supplies : by the repre­ sentative of the intervention agency at the place of destination .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the third day following its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Official Journal of the European Communities
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States ."
Done at Brussels, iV – ~7^V '• - ' i For the Commission
