Ireland 560
Danmark 107.463 91 Ireland 88.000 78 United Kingdom 116.314 72
38 Ireland 40 Scotland
36 Nederland 72$ 39NorthernIreland 76$
(Limousin,Auvergne) 129 (England Went Region)
(Ligur .a) I65 ( Emilia-Romagna ) (Northern Ireland ) 186 (Nederland )
(Northern Ireland) 205 Champagne , Bourgogne}
Limous in ,
Luinbou. Fruittealt i
Duitsland 581.618
Crii^d i eren-boilWTand %
Gr^isd ieren-boilWTand «
Craa?d ieren-boiloTand ft
Hokd i eren-bouwl and Hokr.icrcn-bliiv . teeltefi
Oriirrtieren-boiiWTand •
Grii?d ieren-boüWTand •
39 Northern Ireland
41 England North Region 42 Wales
43 England West Region 44 England East Region
proef eab
boekhouabedr1j–2767I44ι-51100I24010 3553307105:18674160134;141|19370128
• 1.1.1973 – 31.12.1973 (zes lid-staten)
- 1er1and :
77 WhRK DOOR DFRDEN
47 Limoges 285 48 Clermont-Ferrand 332 49 Lyon 200 50 Cognac 30 51 Nice/Cd'A. 4 52 Toulouse 152 53 Montpellier 5
 Gewas
162 86 112 Nederland 580 124
EnglandNorthRegion England West Region EnglandEastRegion
21 Langnedoo, Provence - Cote
44 England East Region
41 England North Region 43 England West Region 44 England East Region
Campania, Calabria, Molise 438 Danmark 978
Nederland I.307 Danmark 844
Centre , Region parisienne 656 Franche-Comté , Champagne , Bourgogne 782 Paglia, Basilicata 1.440 Nederland I.243 Danmark 952 England East Region 692
England North Region England West Region England East Region
39 Northern Ireland 276
36 Nederland 537 37 Danmark 577
39 Northern Ireland
39 Northern Ire 1and
 17 Lorraine , 40 Scotland 42 Wales
44 England East Region
41 England North Region 43 England West Region 44 England East Region
41 England North Region 455
43 England West Region 405 7/ 50 ha
"TT– r~7~" 39northernIreland 40 Scotland
j 43 England West Region 1 44 England Eaet Rerion
39NorthernIreland
43 England Heet Region 44 Oi^land East Region
39 Northern Ireland
41 England North Region
44 England East Region
For "the jIEC Farm Accountancy Data Network (FAD1T) the "1973" accounting yearrepresentsanimportantnewstageinitsdevelopment. Thiswas
the year when, on the enlargement of the Community, the FADN was extended to the three new Member States.
Several years of transition were not needed to make the FADN fully operationalthroughoutthelargerCommunity. Thisremarkablesituation is mainly due to the fact that the new Member States had already created
good accounting "base; however, it would have been impossible to attain such a complete result as early as "1973" without the combined and
commendable efforts of all those co-operating in this task at regional, national and Community level.
Thus, for the first time, this report contains a summary on the economic position of the main types of holding in the different regions of the enlarged Community.
The "1973" accounting results are based on a sample of some 13,600 returningholdings. Theincreaseintheaccountingsample,whichQnly
numbered 10,000 holdings in "1972", is primarily the result of the extension of the FADN to the new Member States.
Since the accounting sample relating to the six original Member States i; appreciably the same, the earlier remarks on the accounting sample's
representativity are still broadly applicable for "1973"» although some progress on this question has been recorded in several areas.
As for the presentation of the "1973" results, this has been distinctly- improved. compared with that of the results of earlier accounting years. For this purpose, users* suggestions have been as far as possible taken into account ; the experience acquired during earlier accounting years has also been of benefit, in particular for the preparation at Community level of programmes for the computer processing of accounting data which
ismoreefficient. PromnowonmostoftheFADNaccountingresults will be presented in the form of computer print outs.
Community Authorities with a direct interest in the FADN results have several times expressed the wish to see them made available more quickly. The "1973" results are appearing over six months ahead of the publication date for the "1972" results, which is an important first step in the right direction.
The data which has been gathered every year for over six years and
the improvements in its ordinary, everyday administration have made the FAD1T an instrument of information which is increasingly used for the guidanceoftheCommonAgriculturalPolicy. Fromnowon,everybranch of administration which prepares or decides on measures capable of affecting farm incomes will be able to rely on the FADN for guidance in its task.
The FADU results have also become a source of information increasingly valued by economists trying to acquire a better grasp of the position of agricultural holdings in the Europe of today and in the future.
The growing interest in the FADN results encourages those taking an activepartinoperatingandexpandingtheNetwork. Itgivestheman incentive to strive even harder for greater efficiency in the future, inordertosatisfytheusers'needsevenmorecompletely. Withthis in view, the Commission would welcome any comments or suggestions from authorities or persons with a direct interest in these results.
Before presenting the "1973" results and drawing the conclusions from
a general analysis of the data collected from the various types of farms in the different regions of the Community, some of the main features of the
FAIN field of survey and the accountancy sample for "1973" will "be des­ cribed. (l)
1. Under the "basic Council Regulation setting up a network for the collection of farm accountancy data on incomes and "business operation
of agricultural holdings in the European Community (2), the field of survey covers those agricultural holdings which :
- run as market oriented holdings, and.
_ constitute the main occupation of the operator
Tvh« implementation of the Commission Regulation concerning th« selection of returning holdings for the purpose of determining incomes of agri­
cultural holdings (3) specifies that :
-"a holding is to be regarded as market-oriented if normally at least half its output is marketed;
- an agricultural holding is to "be regarded as providing the main occupation of the operator if the latter devotes at least three quarters of his annual working time to the holding."
(1) The FAIN years are given in inverted commas because they do not always correspond to calendar years, but sometimes to a period of 12 months beginning in the first
halfofthecalendaryear. Thus"1973"canmeantheaccountingyearfrom1
. uary 1973 to 31 December 1973, 1 May 1973 to 30 April 1974 or 1 July 1973 to
(2) Council Regulation N° 79/65/EEC of 15 June 1965 OJ N° 109 of 23 June 1965. (3) Commission Regulation N° 91/66/EEC of 29 June 1966.
In "1973", as for previous years, the FAIN field of survey was confined to holdings of five or more hectares; this limitation did not apply to businesses producing wine, fruit, horticultural produce or olive prod­ ucts (l).
2. Prom the statistical data available, it is not always possible to deter­ mine the exact number of holdings covered by the FAIN field of survey; once again, the number therefore has been estimated (2).
On the basis of the latest statistics available, some of which are taken from the 1970 agricultural census, the FAIN field of survey covered about 3,130,000holdingsatthebeginningofthisdecade. Giventhechanges in agricultural structures observed since 1970 in Member States taking an annual census, it can be estimated that the number of holdings covered approached3millionin1973(3). Inthisreport,thefieldofsurvey refers only to the 3,130,000 holdings for which details by region and
"type were available (type of farming and size).
3. About nine tenths of the holdings covered by the FAIN field of survey are in the original six Member States. France and Italy alone acoount for about two-thirds of the total.
(1) The restricted field of survey will continue in force until the year "1974", the last before the entry into effect of Council Regulation N° 2910/73, under which the number of returning holdings will gradually be increased from "1975" "1978".
(2) Arrangements were made to determine this number directly from the results of the 1975 Community survey on agricultural structures now being carried out.
(3) Three million was the number of holdings already quoted in the previous report on the FAEN results "1971" and "1972" where it related to "1970" and covered the original Member States only. The estimate was undoubtedly somewhat too high because the data arising from the 1970 agricultural census were not then available for Italy.
Number of
of %
Nederland 122,938
and poultry
430 Pigs and poultry - grazing stock
Holdings concentrating exclusively or mainly on grazing stock - especially cattle - make up almost half of the field of survey...
One farm in seven specializes mainly or exclusively in arable farm­ ing; one in ten in permanent grazing crops, and one in twenty in horticulture .
Almost three-quarters of the holdings covered by the field of survey arebetweenfiveandfiftyhectares(UAA). Theyaredividedevenly between the three size categories 5-10, 10-20, and 20-50 hectares. Of the others - i.e. , a little more than a quarter of the total -
18 % fall into the very small category (less than 5 hectares) and 9 % into the large category (50 hectares and over).
Vines Other
223 Fruit 224 Vines Other
4. Of the 15,399 holdings selected for "1973", 13,394 forwarded
a farm return at the end of the year complying with the legis­ lativeprovisions(1). Therateofwastageoftheaccountancy sample between the time of selection of the holdings and the closure of accounts was of the order of 13%.
The 13,394 farm returns thus provide the basis for the data available to the FADN for "1973".
of holdings
of % holdings
336 Cattle 4,135 30.9 340 Grazing - pigs and
poultry 430 Pigs and poultry
(1) Commission Regulation N° 118/66/EEC of 29 July 1966, OJ N° 148 of 10 August.;1966
Type of farming
Geographical locations of selected returning holdings
is represented by a point at the place corresponding to its geographical location
5. Given that the sample does not cover the entire field of survey the overall FADN result have had once again to be presented by groups
of ten or more returning holdings# The sample therefore included 11,725 individual holdings, of which 6,673 appeared in the 1972 FADN (constant sample).
6. The 11,725 returning holdings falling within groups of 10 or more holdings were classified in 375 groups each corresponding to a specific type of farming and a particular size category. Each group includes an average of 3"! returning holdings, the extremes ranging from 10 to 200 or more. The number varies considerably from one country to another. It was far higher
for"1973"than for previous years (27 in "1971" and "1972").
This increase can be attributed mainly to the extension of the FADN to the new Member States.
Distribution of groups returning holdings in "1973" by number
Number of returning holdings
-Returning holdings selected (15,339) – "Régional
Régional groups 10 holdings (11.725)
) Number of returning holdings in a category#
z The 5,052 new holdings include the group of 3*^96 holdings covered for the first time in "1973"»
Category of holding : All holdings engaged in the same type of farming and falling within the same UAA size category.
Group of holdings : All the holdings falling within the same category in a given division (regional group) or in a given country (national group) where no other details are given, the term "group of holdings" refers only to the regional group.
The total constant sample also includes holdings belonging to regional groups<10. Itismadeupof7,838holdings, ofwhich7,838correspond to the four major types (cf. diagram, annex IV 22).
f Complete sample : regional basis (11,725)-) Complete sample : national basis (12,911)-}- Total sample (13,3910 ^
( Selected returning holdings which ceased to keep accounts
| during the year or for which the farm return was not properly-
777777771Holdings falling within categories represented both at regional 7W7777^ (division) and national levels by less than 10 returning holdings
Holdings falling within categories represented at regional level
](divisions) by groups of less than 10 returning holdings and at Inational level by groups of more than 10 returning holdings. ■
Holdings falling within groups of less than 10 returning holdings –~ appearing in the "1973" sample for the first time.
Holdings falling within groups of less" than 10 returning holdings ! I I I I I l-l-l v;hich already appeared in the "1972" sample.
Number of holdings
Type of farming
Number of % holdings (*)
223 Fruit 1,554,749 57 224 Vines Other
340 Grazing - pigs and poultry
7. On the basis of the 11,725 holdings falling within groups of 10 or more returning holdings, it was possible to represent only about 1,870,000 out of the total of 3,130,000 holdings covered by the field of survey. The average rate of coverage of the field of survey by sample is therefore about 60
it differs widely from country to country, type of farming or the size of holding (UAA), as can be seen below.
(groups of 10 or more holdings) "1973"
38 430 Pigs and poultry - 72 grazing stock
*) Average rate : the number of holdings eepressed as a percentage of the total number in the same category in the field of survey.
8. ParadoxicallytheoriginalMemberStates,withacoveragerate of 57%, are less well represented than the new Member States, Where in the first year of operation in these countries, the FADN accountancy sample showed almost 80% of its field of survey .
The "cattle" type of farming is 'represented by a 90% participation of the total field surveyed while the corresponding figure for the "arable-grazing" type of farming is barely 30%.
Nearly 80% of farms in the 20 to 80 ha category are included while the corresponding figures for. those of less than 10 ha is k0%,
9. The coverage rate of the field of survey differs widely from
one country to another and even more from one division to another, as illustrated by such divergent rates as k% (Saarland) and 91% (Denmark).
In 14, i.e., one third of the divisions studied (see map attached), less than 50% of the field of survey is represented. But in 12 of these 1 divisions, the accountancy sample covers more than 70%.
 Low representation < 50%
High representation > 7C>%
53# 36 Nederland 72%
\55% 38 Ireland 40 Scotland
(England West (Region
39NorthernIreland 76%
10. The preceding data show that, despite the efforts made in "1973" to improve the coverage of the FAIR field of survey, there are still large gaps in the system; it will he necessary to remedy this situation in the future particularly when the number of returning holdings is gradually to be increased from "1975" "to "1978"• For the moment this shortcoming must he borne in mind when analysing the accountancy results. In this respect the tables appearing in the annexes to this report provide a useful aid for those studying the "1973" results, since they supply the necess­ ary information on the real scope of the results.
11. Before analysing the "1973" results as they appear in the annexed tables, a few words must be said about the new form of presentation used for the first time in this report.
It.-should be recalled that the FADN results are presented in two distinct parts, namely :
The average results by group of returning holdings (Annex V);-
- in absolute terms (EUR) for the entire "1973" sample
- in the form of indices for the "1972/73" constant sample.
The average results of all ad hoc groups constituted for spec­ ific analyticc.1 purposes are presented either in the form of
- tables (Annexes VII, VIII, ...), - or graphs (Annex VIII).
12. The results thus presented essentially relate to the account­ ancy sample and were not obtained by extrapolation intended to
extend the coverage to the entire part of the field of survey represented. It is left to readers to make such extrapolations from the data appearing in the annex. Great care should however be exercised here because the groups of holdings from which the results were obtained were reclassified a posteriori (on the basis of farm return data); i.e., the original classification used for selection purposes was not followed.
Changes were made in the presentation of the FADN results this year, especially as regards the average results by group of holdings and the graphs analysing trends in incomes for certain types of farming.
A. Average results by group of returning holdings
14. The average results by group of returning holdings will hence­ forth be presented in the form of computerized tables with a column each for the average results from a specific group of holdings of which each of the kS lines is attributed to one of the 119 criteria used for classifying the groups of returning
holdings (see Annex IV).
15. Most of the 119 criteria in question are the same as those adopted in presenting the results in previous years. Given that the corresponding values were obtained by using the same methods of calculation as for other years, the "1973" results can be regarded as fully comparable.
16. Ttfo new categories of criteria, however, appear in the list of 119, namely :
- criteria of productivity per production unit; e.g. gross production per hectare of crops or head of livestock;
- criteria of distribution of holdings by income category; 10 income categories in steps of 2,000 EUR were adopted.
17* Since it emerged that production varied to a greater extent than costs from year to year, a special effort was made to include more details on production to ensure that the pub­ lished results will provide a better source of information on one of the main factors governing trends in income.
18. The k6 criteria employed to classify a given group of hold­
ings were selected in relation to the type of farming carried on by the holdings in the group concerned. Thus, under "Vines", separate data is given on the production of "table grapes"
and "wine"} whereas under "cattle" these details are replaced by data on "beef and veal" or "milk" production, etc.
19. A certain number of basic characteristics relating to the structure of the holdings and their' production and' incomes are given throughout for all groups; these criteria include the Utilized Agricultural Area (UAA), Annual Labour Units (ALU), Income per ALU, etc. (see Annex IV B and C).
An attempt was therefore made to supply the greatest number of results in the smallest space possible and thus satisfy the need for diversified information, in particular as regards the type of farming in the various holdings. (1)
20. The columns of results representing groups of holdings are arranged, as in the past, by type of farming, and - for a
given type of farming - by size category; they follow the numer­ ical order of the divisions (from left to right).
(1) The tables referred to contain in 177 pages all the basic data on the situation of farm holdings.
One change, however, was made in this report; columns were included in the tables giving the averages for groups con­ stituted at national level for the four Community countries which have more than one division, namely : Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom. (1)
These columns precede those giving the results for the corres­ ponding regional groups. The advantage of inserting these columns, headed only by the name of the country in full and not by a number, is that the characteristics of all holdings of a given type of farming and UAA category (category of hold­ ings) in a particular Member State can be seen at a glance. Because the new columns enable the national and corresponding regional data to be compared easily, they also make it possible to measure the disparities between regional averages and the corresponding average for the entire accountancy sample in
21 . The new columns giving the average results of the national sample in the four largest Community countries were not always included. They were omitted wherever they duplicated results already appearing in a column for regional averages (e.g., where a single regional sample covered a given category of holdings inthecountryconcerned). Neitherwerethenationalaverages given when, after consulting the FADN bodies of the country involved, there were doubts as to their statistical value.
(1) With regard to the other countries, namely : Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Denmark and Ireland, the inclusion of a column for the "national average" would have meant that the average results for the groups of holdings would be duplicated, since
the division and the country are identical.
 introduced recently. Several categories were too heterogenous were subdivided to
of holdings which facilitate assess­
22. A second important innovation in the presentation of the "1973" results is the application of the modifications to the Community scheme for the classification of holdings
ment and the analysis of income levels.
categories were subdivided : "General Agriculture", "Horti­ culture", "Fruit", "Vines", "Cattle" and "Pigs". Each of these specific types was rearranged into more highly special­ ized sub-groups. For example, "Horticulture" was sub-divided into five sub-groups, namely "outdoor market gardening", "market gardening under glass", "outdoor flower-growing",
"flower-growing under glass", and field-scale vegetable- growing", whilst "Cattle" was sub-divided into "beef and veal", "milk" and "mixed" (unspecified).
23. The refinement of the Community system for the classification of holdings will considerably enhance the scope of the FADN results, some of which related to excessively heterogeneous groups of holdings. To retain the maximum number of points of comparison between the "1973" results and those published earlier, groups of holdings constituted on the basis of the already-existing classification were maintained. Thus, for example, the "1973" results include not only the group aver­ ages for "milk", "beef and veal" and "mixed" (unspecified), but also the average results for all three groups combined under "Cattle".
The following
2k, Results are presented only for groups of ten or more holdings constituted at regional (or national) level. The user should first of all note the figure at the head of each column giving the number of holdings in the group (first criterion) as it provides an indication of the scope of the data appearing
in the column.
B. Graphs for the analysis of the trends in incomes
25. For the first time this report contains a series of graphs prepared by computer.
These graphs show the trends in certain factors or incomes from year to year. The points in the spread on each graph represent groups of holdings. Both the regression line and its equation and the line' ( in nominal terms ) on., . , which the "status quo" points are located are also shown. The regression line and all the data for assessing dis>»
persion have been based not on the averages for groups of hold­ ings as was done in the past, but on data from holdings studied individually.
Up to now, graphs have been used mainly for analysing trends in incomes in the sub-groups of the sample for certain types of farming or certain size-categories of holdings.
26. To obtain unquestionably valid results, the EEC farm accountancy data network must satisfy two basic require­
ments : representativity of the sample and reliability of returns.
27. With regard to the representativity of the sample, en­ couragingresultswereobtainedin"1973". Somecountries now select returning holdings at random. In others, how­ ever, substantial progress will have to be made if the sample is to be equally representative throughout the EEC. In several countries, coverage of the field of survey in "1973" proved clearly inadequate (see Part I, Chapter III). This was the main reason why the Council of Ministers of the European Communities granted the necessary funds to double the sample in successive stages until "1978".
28. However, the "1973" results have already achieved certain objectives, in particular with regard to the assessment of incomes for large groups of holdings engaged in certain types of farming. Despite certain defects in their overall
representativity » th« "1973" results provide a valuable instrument for the orientation of the common agricultural
29* The reliability of the FADN results was further improved in "1973" by carrying out a more thorough and systematic check on the accountancy data using the full resources
of a data processing system. The quality of the inform­ ation supplied was further improved by eliminating certain deficiencies still affecting some of the data and removing any possibility of error due to manual processing.
30. The "1973 results, like the earlier ones, must be used with care, however. In certain instances they are very reliable with regard to a given geographical area but less so if applied on a larger scale. A group of returning holdings adequately representing a category
of holdings in a particular division is not necessarily a valid sample for all the holdings in the same category at national level, since the country concerned may have divisions which include this category without its being represented by the returning holdings*
Conversely, in other cases certain groups of about 10 returning holdings may barely be adequate to represent their category in the region under consideration; when these returning holdings are taken together with those
in several other regional groups, however, they can often give a more satisfactory overall picture of the situation.
31 . Conclusions should not be drawn from a purely superficial examination of certain average results for excessively heterogenous groups of holdings within which conflicting trends may often neutralize each other unnoticed. The accompanying presentation of detailed and better-integrated results for geographical areas or types of farming reveals the limitations and pitfalls of a too hasty analysis of
the abundant documentation thus made available.
32. Certain groups of holdings have been constituted in accordance with reclassification carried out a posteriori on the basis of the farm return data. The regional committees responsible for selection had not intended these groups to be represented in the accountancy sample. The average results for such groups, there­ fore, which established themselves spontaneously, cannot always be considered reliable. A distinguishing symbol identifies the relevant groups in the annexed tables of results (small black squares beside the heading).
33. All the groups of holdings falling within the specialized farming types, (details recently included in the Community classification) similarly result from the a postieri class­ ification of holdings selected to represent '•certain far less specific types.
3*f. It should be recalled that,among the criteria adopted to determine the situation of the groups of holdings under consideration, income is assessed on the basis of data some of which is obtained from sources other than the farm accountants. The level of income depends, among other things, on the national return on capital employed,
35* The economic or financial results of the returning holdings
are expressed in EUR using the conversion rates for each nationalcurrency(seeAnnexIVB), Inaperiodofrapid inflation at rates varying from one country to anothelr, i.e. the situation, since 1973» the comparability of the accountancy data could be affected if the various inflationary forces
were not taken into account fully in determining the con­ version rates.
To avoid part of these difficulties at least, the trend in economic results - particularly incomes - of the groups of holdings studied ]^ave been established directly on the basis of results expressed in national currencies.
36. It should be borne in mind that because the Member States* accounting years are not synchronized,(they are out of step by up to six months) certain disparities in incomes due mainly to inflation, or even sudden changes in the relative terms of trade, may occur.
37» This chapter is basically devoted to the general observations
resulting from an initial overall analysis of the economic sit­
uation of various types of farming to be found in the different
regionsoftheCommunity. Thisfirstanalysiswasmainlybased
on the Labour Income per ALU (LI/ALU); it concentrate on deter­
mining the gaps in revenue observed and trying to find out the essential causes.
The following chapters (Chapter VII and VIII) will examine another
aspect, namely the development of Labour Income per ALU, in part­ icular between "1972" and "1973".
A. Picture of the average FADN returning holding in "1973"
38. The average farm corresponding to the total sample of some 13,000 returning holdings observed in "1973" in the Community has the following characteristics :
Picture of the average FADN returning holding "1973"
Factors and means of production UAA : ^1.69 ha
Production and Income
The average returning holding in "1973" is not typical of the average farm in the Community. This, in the case of farms of more than 5 ha has an area of about 27 ha and employs 2 ALUs. Nevertheless, the average Community returning holding is an initial point of reference for analysing the varieties of struct­ ure and the economy of all returning holdings observed by the FADN in "1973".
39. Labour per ALU in the average Community returning holding (4824 EUR) is the result of a very wide variation. Of the 13,000 return­ ing holdings observed, more than half (about 7,000) have a labour income of less than 4,000 EUR/ALU (the Labour Income in nearly
30# of these being between 2,000 and 4,000 EUR/ALU), while barely a tenth (1,000) had a Labour Income of over 10,000 EUR/ALU. Thus, a little under k0% of the returning holdings are to be found in an intermediate zone of between 4,000 and 10,000 EUR/ALU.
B. Distribution of income among farms according to type of farming and size
40. An examination of income according to the main types of farming or the farm area shows that :
a) farms with both the highest overall income and the highest Labour Income per ALU are those in the "arable" or "pigs and poultry" classes, followed by farms producing "permanent crops" and finally "grazing stock". The labour income in this last category is about 35% lower than in the first two categories.
Sub-groups according to type
• Pigs and poultry
ßub-groups by size of farm :
b) With.the exception of a very composite group of farms with an area of less than 5 ha, which include highly intensive and
specialized holdings, in particular in the field of horticulture under glass and .pfcgs or poultry, both the net
fact nearly 1500 ha(sheep in Scotland).
incomeperALUandthelabourincomeperALUincrease withthe farm area, they are respectively 1 = 2.2 and 1 = 1.9 »»ich means that when the category changes from 5 ha to 10 ha to over 50 ha,
the income doubles. (1)
c) According to type of farm, the labour income represents between 70 and 80$ of total return on production factors consisting on the one hand of the total labour force of the holding and on the
other of the farmers' own capital (land and buildings and working
-r-v * lasttypeisof1^0ha. Thiscategoryis (1)Theaverageareaofthislas yp agriculturalarea.
characterised by a very large in 0K)a„d in These vary from 50-60 ha to nearly 300 ha tbeei
capital). The larger farm, the less important the part played by wages in the return on all production factors. Depending on the size of the farm, the share of the labour force varies from 86% (farms of less than 5 hectares) to 7056 (farms of more than 20 hectares).
C. Distribution of income according to types of farming
kl . There is considerable variation between labour income of farms carrying on the same type of farming.
Average characteristics of returning holdings for "1973" according to type of farming
(total of returning sample)
Type of farming
34øGrazing stock - pigs and poultry
of return UAA/farm ALU/farm Capital LI/ALU
42. The Labour Income per ALU in general agriculture and on pig farms is also double the figure for beef producers. With a similar area (66 hectares instead of 7l)» litte difference in capital (30f000 EUR in­ stead of 36,000) and practically the same labour force (1.9 instead of 2.2 ALU), beef farms in the Community of Nine in "1973" had little more than a third (37 <0f) of the Labour Income per ALU obtained on general farms.
43. The average capital invested on most farms combining mixed farming with cattle rearing varies between 30,000 and 35,000 EUR regardless
of the type of farming. This bracket is relatively narrow, but it is much wider at the individual farm level.
Pig and poultry farms are outside (above) this bracket; they invest more capital, but use less land than the others. Horticultural, vine and fruit farms are also outside (but below) this bracket beoause they do not require so much working capital; on the other hand their fixed capital - which indlude the plantations - is much higher than elsewhere.
D. Variation of income among farms carrying on the 3ame type of farming
44. Variation of labour income per ALU is also considerable within groups of farms carrying on the same type of farming. The following outline gives an idea of the number of farms in each of 10 classes of labour income per ALU varying from less than 2,000 EUR to more 14,000 EUR, each step - corresponding to 2,000 EUR. Inter alia this diagram shows that :
of labour income
a) In each type of farming under consideration there is a wide distributionofincomes. Thedistributionisbroaderingeneral
agriculture and pig farming, where the average income is rel­ atively high, than in fruit farming and beef production, where average incomes are relatively low.
b) Several farms thus have every prospect of increasing their in­ come without having to switch to another type of farming. For the purpose they may refer to the best farms in their category.
45. Apart from certain accidental factors, the distribution of incomes as shown here depends on several essential elements, namely :
- the type of product given on the farm.
The income distribution, for example, of all cattle farms is diff­ erent from that of dairy farms and from farms which specialize in
beef production. The same applies to farms specializing in cereal grow­ ing compared with the general agriculture class; analysis of incomes must be continued and the complex production systems investigated more
deeply in order to discover the real causes of differences in income.
- production conditions on the farm. The conditions under which milk is produced vary according to region (see page 55) and farming structure. Farm size plays an important role here (scale economies).
- price levels and relationships. Prices vary considerably according to region, and also according to agricultural product, and these divergencies largely explain the differences in income,
- the farm management ability. This factor, although difficult to assess, is essential; it appears clearly when variations in income within a group of farms corresponding to well-defined region, type of farming and size are examined.
k6. Although the price factor is an essential element on which agri­ cultural income depends within any given type of farming, production conditions, farming structures and the farmers' management ability are on the other hand the cause of differences in income among farms of this type.
E. Geographical variations in income on some types of farm
^7. The Labour Income/ALU noted for all returning holdings within one class or even a specialised one varies greatly according to country or region. Thus an arable farmer in the Netherlands earns nearly three times as much as his Italian counterpart. A farmer in the Netherlands producing grazing stock earns nearly twice as much as
a similar farmer in Germany or France. On the other hand, the
best incomes in the "permanent crops" class are found in France, where they are not quite double the figure obtained on similar farms in Italy.
Variations in the "pigs and poultry" class are smaller because production is generally more industrialized and less dependent on climatic conditions, (see Table Annex VIII D).
48. Regional variations in Labour Income per ALU are also considerable, even in more homogeneous groups of holdings than those described above. The differences in income for certain types of farm in the same region - expressed in relation to the average Labour income per ALU for all farms of this type in the sample (0 = 100) - were just as great in "1973" as in preceding financial years.
Type of holding Variation (0 EEC = 100)-
UAA from to
Grazing stock-pigs and poultry
186 (Nederland) 45 (Northern Ireland) 205 (Ncd.erland)
23 (Northern Ireland) 67 (Prancho-Comte,
^9. The greatest differences (from 1 to nearly 10) were noted between
the groups of holdings engaged in horticulture or growing vines; the smallest differences although still quite considerable were found in the type "Cattle >50 ha".
Type of farming is therefore not the only factor that accounts for the large differences in farm income. In this connection it will be noted that some divisions are always at the top of the class­ ification regardless of the technical and economic field involved; for example : the Netherlands. Whenever they are included in the accounting sample the Netherlands are always in first place (see Table VII C.1) while other divisions (such as Northern Ireland, Apulia) are always at the bottom of the list with very low incomes for many types of holdings.
F. Distribution of income in returning holdings in the different regions
50. Although the accounting sample is not representative of agriculture in different divisions (1) - in some cases far from it - it is
appropriate to examine the distribution of regional accounting samples according to labour income. This distribution certainly does not exactly correspond to that of all the agricultural holdings in the region, but as returning holdings have been selected to represent the most typical, if not the most important types
of holding in the division, knowledge of this distribution pro­ vides an initial indication of the distribution of farm income at
regional level and to some extent explains the sensitivity in the agricultural sector in each of the large regions of the Community.
See map of divisions Annex I C.
51. Thus the returning holdings in each of the divisions have been broken down into ten types of labour income per ALU (LI/ALU).
The results of this breakdown are shown in the histogram in the graph below (1).
The histograms for regions where agriculture is generally con­ sidered to be flourishing show a wider coverage than the others* In less favoured regions as regards both their nature and general economic situation, there is on the other hand a greater concen­ tration of holdings in the low income categories (0 to ^,000 EUR/ALU).
52. Everywhere, however, even in apparently less favoured regions
there is a wide variation of income between the different types
of holdings. This variation is evidence of the extent of potential progress as regards productivity and income open to agriculture
in most of the regions of the Community. This margin however
will not be reduced by improving the situation of the less favoured holdings unless a variety of constraints are overcome : material, structural, technical, economic and even sociological which at present hinder agricultural development in the regions in question.
(1) There is a histogram for each of the regional divisions included in the FADN. Two essential numerical facts are shown for each
histogram : the number of returning holdings observed (shown in parenthesis) and the percentage of the FADN field of survey rep­ resentedbytheholdings. Theseareindicatorsoftherealscope of the accounting data for each division.
BREAKDOWN (%) OF RETURNING HOLDINGS BY DIVISION AND BY LABOUR INCOME PER ALU ( sample of returning holdings in groups with 10 or " more farms )
( 91 ) = Number of returning
51 X = Presentation of the field of survey
holdings Source: FADN accounting year " 1973 "
/*_1 : .1 r_l. Categories of labour
 53» The wide variation in each of the regional accounting samples is accounted for "by the extreme differences in concentrations of
In. conclusion , the average Community labour income of a
holding which was 4»824 EUR/ALU in "1973" is the result of a wide variation of incomes which are very different depending on the type and size of holdings , and region . Arable and grazing stock usually receive a high income (6,391 and 6,201 EUR/ALU respectively) whereas permanent crops and stock grazing tend to do less well (4,433 and 4,071 EUR/ALU respectively).
- Category 4,000 to 6,000 EUR/ALU - Category 6,000 to 8,000 EUR/ALU
returning holdings in the income categories in the Member States.
In each Member State the highest concentration occurs in the follow­ ing categories :
- category 0 to 2,000 EUR/ALU 51.6 $* Irish
( 37.8 I$" German - category 2,000 to 4,000 EUR/ALU ) 32.3 $i French
Large holdings, regardless of the type of farming have a definite ad­ vantage (3,360 EUR/ALU per 7*5 ha* 6,448 EUR/ALU per 148 ha). Since profitable holdings and suitable structures for high productivity and income are mainly concentrated in certain regions, and moreover
since in the regions in question conditions are usually good and the farmers competent, the spread in farm income between returning hold­ ings in the different regions is considerable. The extent of this - spread is indicative of the sensitivity in the agricultural sector and demonstrates the need for efforts to achieve better productivity and higher income for those working in agriculture in certain parts of the Community.
VII. CHANGES IN INCOME IN RETURNING HOLDINGS FROM "1972" to "1973" (original Community)
55* The analysis of the trend of farm incomes from one year to the next is "based on a constant sample of returning holdings (all the holdings in­ cluded in the accounting sample of FAUN in the two financial years
"1972" and "1973") (l)i There were 6,673 holdings in the "1972"-"1973" sample. This corresponded to about two thirds of the total number of returning holdings in the total sample from the six original Member States in "1973". The constant sample is still limited to the original
Gomunity because accounting data before "1973" is not available from the FAIN for the new Member States.
A. The average Comunit.y returning holding
56. The labour income per ALU on the average Community returning holding in the constant sample rose from 4»170 to 4»422 EUR/ALU. There has
been an average increase in the income of the returning holdings in question in national currency of 252 EUR/ALU which corresponds to an index of 106 (1972 - 100).
B. Main types of farmmg
57. The trend varied sharply depending on the general type of farming. Holdings growing permanent crops with a labour income of about 3jl00 EUR/UTA in 1972 increased their income by about 1,300 EUR/ALU in 1973.
(l) As long as the FAIN dees not represent the entire field of survey, it is necessary to have recourse to constant samples of returning holdings in order to assess as correotly as possible the income of farmers in the various types of farm represented. The income trend thus calculated takes into account all the factors which might influence income and in part-,
icular changes in farming structure.
This gain in labour income is greater than that recorded in holdings engaged in arable farming (+ 85O EUR/ALU) and pigs and poultry (+ 550 EUR/ULA). However the income of holdings engaged in raising grazing stock fell severely (- $00 EUR/ALU).
The following indices have been worked out for holdings in the four main types of farming :
119 for arable land 142 for permanent crops
84 for grazing stock (cattle - sheep) 109 for pigs and poultry.
58. The following graphs showing the trends in "1972"-"1973" of labour income per ALU in the returning holdings in the four main categories of farming (l) give rise to the following comments :
a) With regard to arable farming :
Most of the 287 groups of holdings represented were in a better position in "1973" (income expressed in terms of national money) than in "1972". The lowest incomes (less than 4|000 EUR) improved whereas the highest incomes (over 12,000 EUR) declined There is a fairly wide spread, 2/3 of the holdings being within a range of 7,500 EUR/ALU. There is no close correlation between the results of each of the 1,490 holdings in question (coefficient O.625).
(l) to read the graphs, see the key in the introduction to Annexe VIII
b) With regard to 'permanent crops" :
Nearly all the 226 groups of returning holdings represented (all
except 13) are in the same aone corresponding to a positive trend in labour income per ALU in "1973". Income trends were almost equiv­ alent in the holdings regardless of the level of their previous in­ come (regression line nearly parallel to the line representing equal income) with an improvement of about 1,200 EUR/ALU. However the variation of the results in this group of holdings, that is much more heterogeneous than previously, is very wide : 2/3 of the hold­ ings are in a range of 8,000 EUR/ALU; the correlation is very weak (coefficient 0.449).
c) With regard to grazing stock :
At first sight, the situation seems to be very unfavourable. Most of the 376 groups of holdings in question which include over 4»000
returning holdings are found in the part of the diagram corresponding to a
decline in labour income in "1973". The low labour income group (under 3,000 EUR/ALU) has improved slightly whereas the upper incomes
have declined, the more so since incomes had risen in "1972". The spread is relatively small : 2/3 of the 100holdings are in a
income range of about 6,400 EUR/ALUj the coefficient of correlation is however very weak (0,*384). The number of holdings corresponding to this general type of farming and the specific nature of some of the special types of farming included (milk, beef) calls for a more thorough analysis, the results of which will be commented on below :
d) With regard to pigs and poultry :
The 111 groups of holdings represented are very evenly divided be­ tween the part of the diagram corresponding to favourable and un­ favourable trends.
Income "below 8,000 EUR/ALU in "1972" improved slightly in "1973" whereas incomes above this bracket declined! The spread is consider­ able, however, about 2/3 of the 577 holdings represented being within an income range of about 9.200 EUR/ALU. The correlation is also very weak (coefficient 0.4).
59. The general impression from the analysis of trends of the agricultural income by groups of holdings corresponding to major types of farming is of extreme diversity of specific trends within each group. Apart from the general tendency which confirms observations based on aver­ age aocounting results, considerable divergencies are noted in trends by groups of holdings. Even when the situation corresponds
to a general type of farming which is favourable on the whole, it does not follow that for many of the holdings in this category income has not declined or vice versa. These findings point to the need for a further analysis of subgroups corresponding to special types or
more homogeneous geographical zones.
C. With regard to the main specialised types
60. In respect of the specialised types of farming there are clearly divergent trends in the development of income between "1972' and "1973". The graph on the following page shows the very marked upward movement of labour income per ALU for general agriculture, horticult­ ure, fruit, vines, and pigs while the trend is reversed for all specialised types including grazing stock, particularly dairy cattle and/or beef.
The following graph showing the "migratory balance" from returning holdings by class of income, highlights the heterogenity of certain specialised types of farming (e.g. arable with grazing stock, pigs and poultry- grazing stock, etc. ) or trends that are not so clearly defined for various others (e.g. milk, beef, vines, etc.).
net increase in number of holdings
net decrease in number of holdings
of labour income EUR / ALU
An analysis of the changes in the distribution of the returning holdings on the basis of earned income per ALU in each division between "1972" and "1973" (see graph below) shows the regions of the Community where there were major trends in the agricultural income in "1973" (1)» those where the position is good (2),£for example, D 03 Nordrhein-Westfalen; D Ok Hessen; I 30 Campania, Calabria, Molise; I 31 Puglia, Basilicata; I 33 Sardegnaj^or
where the position is bad (3),^for example, F 13 Basse et Haute Normandie; F 16 Franche-Comte, Champagne, Bourgogne; B ~$b Belgique/
Belgie, NL 36 Nederland^and those with divergent trends (*<■),^for example, D 6 Baden-Wurttemberg; D 7 Bayern; F 17 Lorraine, Alsace;
The agricultural income of certain types of farming surveyed has fluctuated more widely in some regions than in others, for example : I 31 Puglia, Basilicata; F 17 Lorraine, Alsace; F 13 Basse et Haute Normandie; I 25 Liguria. There has been much greater economic stability in other regions, for example : NL 36 Nederland; D 6 Baden-Wurttemberg; D7 Bayern.
In each of the types of region in question undoubtedly the farmers have experienced economic conditions which are likely to have re­ percussions going well beyond the accounting year under consider­ ation .
If one divides the total number of returning holdings by the number of returning holdings which have moved from one income category to another, then the nearer the result is to one, the greater the change in agricultural income. The numerator and denominator are shown in the graph.
The distribution profile for these regions is as follows :
The distribution profile for these regions is as follows :
(k) The distribution profile for these regions is as follows :
ly ;
Categories of labour income
Number of returning holdings having changed category _ _2000 - 0 7 - 8000 - 10000
Number of returning holdings constant sample
Number (%) holdings entering the category IT Number (%) holdings leaving the category
Source : FADN accounting year " 1973 "
Number of
63* As an example the geographical distribution of the income trend for cattle holdings of 20 - 50 ha (all categories, milk, beef and mixed) is examined in more detail below. The main results are as follows :
(constant sample of returning holdings from 20 to 50 ha) between "1972" and "1973"
The above data show that gross cattle production was inadequate, part­ icularly as regards growth and fattening (rearing and fattening), to offset increased input costs. According to country, the difference between returns and inputs is considerably different ; it is even more so by region.
64* The indices for the development of the level of labour income per ALU in the various regional groups of returning holdings of 20-50 ha en­ gaged in cattle production (indices shown in the table below) result from this divergent evolution.
In the milk production holdings, apart from certain regional except­ ions, with an upward tendency in labour income per ALU (Bayern, Aquitaine, Midi-Pyr€n£es, Lombardie, Luxembourg), the trend in labour income per ALU has generally been downwards, which in certain divisions
Specific types
in groups of returning holdings specializing in cattle
and " 1973 "
(1) The trends established refer only to the FAOT accountancy sa^piej
necessarily represent the corresponding trends m the national total of holdings of the type under consideration.
has resulted in a drop of more than k0%. The corresponding indices are spread between 58 (Saarland) and 96 (Nord-Picardie, Nederland).
In the mixed holdings (milk and beef), an almost general improve­ ment in labour income per ALU is noted in the German divisions
(apart from Schleswig-Holstein and Hessen), as well as in the Ital­ ian divisions (apart from Latium-Abruzzes), and in Luxembourg, while
in all the French divisions, the indices are noticeably less than 100 .
The holdings specializing in beef production - that were only re­ presented in "1972" and "1973" in the French divisions - have suffered a considerable reduction of income in all divisions (with
the exception of Aquitaine - Midi Pyrenees).
To summarize, the trend in farm incomes for most types of farming with the exception of grazing stock, has been favourable in "1973" in nominal value as against "1972".
The reduction in incomes for cattle farms has been due mainly to substantial price changes between the beginning and the end of the accounting year. These changes have had the effect mainly of low­ ering the value of live animals in the balance sheet. The drop in incomes has thus not been reflected entirely in the finances of the holdings concerned.
The general tendencies which emerge are in the final analysis the results of developments often very different at regional level. Many of the groups of holdings have achieved incomes in "1973" of a record level. 'Nevertheless, for kk% of the groups
of holdings (not only those engaged mainly with grazing stock), the results of the "1973" exercise have been much less favourable than
the "1972" income.
66# The constant samples of returning holdings used in the past to analyse the trend in farm incomes of the main types of holding in the original
Community number about 5»000 and enable income growth (gross farm income) expressed as an annual ind to be determined. The index
ranges from 139 (1969 = 100) for"Grazing Stock - Pigs and Poultiy" to 261 for "Vines".
Type of farming
67. The resultsof the constant samples surveyed each year since "1969" confirm the trends established previously with regard both to the area of the holdings, which continues to grow slightly, and the lab­ our force which shows a small reduction. The growth in the area of the holdings is more marked in holdings with grazing stock as a main or secondary activity. The reduction in the labour force is more pronounced in holdings specialising in arable farming lands.
One of the main characteristics of the "1973" accounting year is
the large increase in working capital for most types of farming. This increase was particularly significant in holdings specialising in grazing stock (cattle) and also holdings specialising in vines (see graph below).
68. An analysis of the trends recorded between "1969" and "1972" reveals certain steady trends in production factors. The same can be said for the incomes of holdings engaged in most types of farming . There is
a clear break, however, in the trend on holding specialising in grazing stock (cattle).
Although there was a considerable increase in farm inoomes in the years from "196$^"to "1973", it has not helped to any appreciable extend to reduce the differences in labour income per ALU between the various types of farming or even as between farms.
TREND OF PRODUCTION FACTORS IN THE PRODUCTION AND INCOME OF RETURNING HOLDINGS from "1969" to "1973"
on the
basis of (our
constant samples from 5000 returning holdings over two consecutive (arm years " 1969" = 100
69. The efforts to improve and speed up the presentation of the FADN accountancy results have allowed, with the publication of the "1973" results, a new step forward to be made in the presentation of incomes in the main types of holdings in different divisions of the Community.
This advance coincides with the enlargement of the FADN to include all the new Member States.
70. Overall the "1973" exercise has been so far as agricultural income is concerned an even better year than "1972" which had already been an excellent year. In "1973" the LI/ALU expressed in nominal val­ ues has continued its rise on most types of farm holdings. During this year only holdings concerned with the production of grazing stock have suffered an appreciable drop in income which is a dis­ tinct reversal of the trends shown by this type of holding since
71. The growth of agricultural labour income expressed in real terms nevertheless is much less appreciable than it appears in terms of nominal value, for many types of holdings, particularly in certain countries suffering high inflation during "1973"« In fact, in a significant number of instances, agricultural incomes have not been able to maintain the degree of parity achieved in "1972" with other sectors of the economy.
72. The general growth of agricultural labour income since "1969" has not helped to reduce appreciably the income disparities within the agricultural sector : in fact substantial income gaps continue - in certain cases they have increased - between the various types of production, between farm types, and from division to division.
73. In many respects the "1973" accountancy results contain the first symptoms of difficulties which will be particularly felt on certain types of farm from next year and which will make the orientation and management of the common agricultural policy more complex than
A - Organization of the Network
B - Diagram of the operation of the Network C - Map showing the divisions
Breakdown of holdings in the field of survey according to the results of the 1970 census
Breakdown of returning holdings by division
Field of survey represented by groups of ten
or more returning holdings according to divisions
Field of survey represented by groups of ten or more returning holdings according to the categories of holdings
Breakdown of groups of ten or more returning hold­ ings into categories of holdings and divisions
- Indices of changes ("1972" = 100) - Constant sample (odd numbered pages)
Presentation of average results by groups of returning holdings
Standard definitions additional to those in the regulations relating to the FADN
Main farm production and farm income criteria Farm types
A - Meteorological conditions B - Crop yields
E - Breakdown of groups of ten or more returning holdings engaged in certain specialized pro­
ductions into categories of holdings and div­ isions .
Breakdown by division of returning holdings categorized according to the level of labour income per ALU (holdings constituting groups of ten or more returning holdings)
Breakdown of returning holdings according to the level of labour income per ALU and accord­ ing to category of holding (holdings constitut­ ing the complete sample•- national basis)
Breakdown of returning holdings according to the level of work per ALU and according to the specialized category (holdings constituting the complete sample)
Regional dispersion of labour income per ALU for categories of holdings represented in ten or more divisions
Regional dispersion of labour income per ALU for returning holdings engaged in certain specialized productions
Labour income per ALU by farm type and by country (holdings constituting the complete sample
Distribution of returning holdings related to particular types of farm businessesctaccording to 10 grades of income per labour unit by ALU
- situation in "1973" and evolution "1972 - 1973"
Graph "Trends of Income per ALU between "1972" and "1973" according to farm type and economy
Changes in the structural characteristics of
the accountancy results between "1969" and "1973"
by farming types (according to constant samples)
The present annex contains :
A - Organization of the Network
B - Diagram of the operation of the Network
C - Map showing the divisions
To meet the needs of the Common Agricultural Policy the Council of Ministers of the European Economic Community, acting on a prdposal from
the Commission, set up by Regulation (Reg. No. 79/65/EEC of 15th June, 1965)anetworkforthecollectionoffarmaccountancydata. This network, in fact, has "been functioning in the field since I968.
The main purpose of the network is to provide the necessary accountancy data for an annual determination of incomes and business analysis of agriculturalholdings. Theresultsprovidedbythenetworkare primarily used by the Commission to prepare an annual report on the situation of agriculture and of agricultural markets in the Community.
The field of survey is confined to holdings which market at least half of their final production and are run by persons who devote at least three-quartersoftheirannualworkingtimetothebusiness. Duringthe networkfs first years of operation the field of survey was further limited so as to cover only holdings of five or more hectares, though this limitation as to area did not apply to businesses producing wine, fruit, horticultural produce or olive products, for which no limit as
to area has been set.
During its initial years of operation the network has relied for its returns on a sample of 10,000 holdings, selected from within the various regions of the Community of Regional Committees consisting of representatives of those concerned (administrative authorities, farms, accountancy offices, etc.). All holdings taking part in the survey do sovoluntarily. Withthehelpoftheaccountancyofficeseachholding keepsfullfarmaccounts. Themaintaskoftheaccountancyofficesis toprepare,fromtheseaccounts,farmreturns. Theannualdatainthese returns are forwarded to the Commission by the various national liaison agencies .
The data are processed at Community level by the Commission, assisted by a Management Committee (the Community Committee for the Accountancy Data Network) consisting of representatives of the Member States and of the Commission. TheCommissionprovidestheChairmanandalsoactsasthe Committee,s secretariat. The Committee is consulted mainly for the purpose of verifying that the selection of returning holdings has been carried out correctly and of analysing and evaluating the data recorded.
In "1973" the Data Network includes 13,600 returning holdings and covers for the first time the entire territory of the enlarged Community.
At the end of 19731 the Council of Ministers decided to double the number of returning holdings in,the four years 1975 - 1978, gradually raising it
to28,000. Thisextensionwillconsiderablyenlargethescopeofthis source of information.
classification of holdings selection of returning holdings
appointment of accountancy offices
keeping of accounts preparation of farm returns
assembly verification
assembly verification analysis
présentation of results
Community (Community level )
list of returning holdings
list of accountancy offices list of categories of holdings list of returning holdings farm returns
COMMISSION Directorate-General of Agriculture
~~~~– t Annualreportonthe . agricultural situation
of material prepared by
Regional Committees and accountancy offices
of matenal forwarded by liaison agencies
opinions
for the Farm Accountancy Data Network
Other sources
European Parliament and CONSULTATIVE BODIES
utilization of results for purposes of the common agricultural policy
This annex contains a breakdown of holdings classified by category of holding and by territorial division in 1970. In the absence of a special statistical analysis corresponding to the Community class­ ification of farm holdings, the breakdown has in most cases been estimated by the authorities of Member States on the basis of avail­ able statistical data. The data from the 1970 Census of Agriculture has mainly been used for this purpose, except for Germany and the United Kingdom.
For Germany, the estimates are based on the 1971 Agricultural Census and for the United Kingdom on the 1973 agricultural returns.
The FADN field of survey covered 3,131»18? full-time holdings which are divided as follows according to Member States :
Italia Belgique/België Luxembourg Nederland Danmark
Pigs - Poultry 20
Pigs,Poultry - Arable 162 1
Field of .
dumber of holdings
Number of holdings
50 ha All Hldgs Field of survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
Field of . Survey
<5ha ^-10ha10-20ha2O-5Oha^50híjAllHldgsFieldof survey
NMlber of holdl„„
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Field of Survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
Number of holdings
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of Survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of
Number of holdings
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
Field of
Number of holdings
Graz.Stock -Pigs,Poultry 10.688 9.746 15.915 5.214 110 41.673 30.985
Number of holdings
Pigs-Poultry t -1- - 81
Field of Survey 1
Pigs,Poultry - Arable 276 19 25 31 6 357 81
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
5.463 5.661 I5.902 25.814 10,957 63.797 " Field of 2.873
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of
All Hldgt . Field of survey
25 16 is 10 121 121 -------
All Hldgc .Field of survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of
Number of Holdings
All Hldgt.Field of survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of
Graz . Stock-Pigs , Poult ly figs
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs . Poultry-Perm . Crops
^ Field of «íiiwrftw
Number of Holdings TOTAL
All Hldgs; . Field oí survey
All Hldgi . Field of survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
1 . , J Field of
Number of Holdings TOTAL
50 ha All Hldgt . Field of survey
Pigs , Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Other
^ Field of „ Survey
All Hidgc . Field oí survey
Pigs,Poultry – Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Pigs,t'oul+ry-Craz.Stock Other
Field of
Number of Holdings TOTAL
Pigs , Poultry - Arable
Number of Holdings TOTAL
All Hldgc .Field of survey
Number of Holdings TOTAL
50 ha All Hldgf .Field of survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Field of
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of Survey
Number of holdings 1
Perm. Cr.ope^-Pigs ,Poultry Cattle
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
i-'ield of
number of noldings
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
PigstPoultry-Graz.Stock other
Field of .
Number of holdings
TYPEOPFARMING <5 5-10ha10-20ha2O-5Ohai»50haAllHldgs.Fieldof survey
Number of holdings
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
l'ield of
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
50 ha All Hldgs Field of survey
Field of . Survey
Number of holdings •
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Number of holdines
Other
Field of
Pigs,Poultry - Arable 'Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Field of . 18.658 Survey
Number of holdings 1
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
i'ield of . 52.662 Survey
Perm. CEope-Pigs,Poultry Cattle
Number of holdings '
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of . Survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
Number of holdings
Field of Survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Number of holdings % I
50 ha All Hldgs Field of survey
Field of Survey
Perm . Crops-Pigs , Poultry Cattle
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
Field of .
Number of holdings
All HldgJ.Field of survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs . Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of
 Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs ,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs ,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
Field of
Pigs-Poultry 1- - - - 1-
All Hldg .Field of survey
Graz.Stock-Pigs,Poultry | 1.209
Pigs , Poultry - Arable
/ Field of
Number of Holdings TOTAL
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
J All Hldgs. Field of .
Number of holdings
50 ha All Hldgs Field of survey
Nimber of holdings
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
Field of Survey
Numb.er of holdings
Perm . Cr.ops-Pigs , Poultry uafcie
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poul try-Perm . Crops
i''ield of Survey
All Hldgs Field of survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poul try-Perm . Crops
l^ield of Survey
All Hldgs Field of survey
Pigs - Poultry 10
Other
i''ield of Survey
, dumber of holdings
Field of Survey
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poul try-Perm . Crops
Number of holdinp-s
Field of Survey
Number of holdings
20-50 ha ^ 50 ha All Hldgs Field of survey
Perm. (Jrxips^Pigs , Poultry Cattle
Number of holdings
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of Survey
38 ¿55 or '21
- Pigs , Poultry 36.630 16.857
Pigs , Poultry -
Pigs , Poultry-Graz . Stock 13.133 Other 24.158
Field of Survey
Number of holdings
Pigs,Poultry – Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs ,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
All Hldgs .Field of survey
1 „ ι Field of
Number of Holdings TOTAL
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Field of Survey
Number of holdings
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs , Poultry-Perm . Crops
Other
Field of
Number of holdings
Perm . Crops'-Pigs , Poultry > Cattle
Pigs,Poultry - Arable Pigs,Poultry-Perm.Crops
Pigs,Poultry-Graz.Stock Other
Number of holdings 1
Field of Survey
The present annex contains :
A - Breakdown of returning holdings by division
B - Field of survey represented by groups of ten or more returning holdings according to divisions
C - Field of survey represented by groups of ten or more returning holdings according to categories of holdings
D - Breakdown of groups of ten or more returning holdings into categories of holdings and divisions
E - Breakdown of groups of ten or more returning holdings engaged in certain specialized productions into categ­ ories of holdings and divisions
N.B. : Certain tables contained in the present annex include certain codes designating classes of holdings or the divisions .
The significance of these codes is shown 2
- for the divisions in Annex I 4
– for the classes of holdings in Annex IV 22»
Number of returning Number of correctly
39 Northern Ireland
41 England North Region
43 England Vest Region
44 England East Region 425
Peïicit of Margin sel-|:
Lese group i of 10
Number of holdings in field of survey 1970
Number of holdings represented % by groups of 2. 10 returning b holdings
 No. of
* 4o. of b groups
* No. of groups
f No. of η groups
No. of *
by*>10 by group field of c byJiO by group field of ë
holdings holdings A repres . repres , in the
m No. of
by>10 )jy group field of return, ^ 10 survey holdings holdings
No. of No. of
No. of No. of *
holdings holdings repres, repres. in the
holdings holdings f repres. repres. in the
No. of No. of holding holdings repres . in the
No. of No. of
No. of
No. of
by>10 by group field of k by?10 by group field of 0 repres. repres. in the s
Category Nimber
N»B. Figures not underlined refer to holding groups proposed for representation by the Regional Cornznittees when
selectingthereturningholdings. Figuresunderlinedrefertogroupswhichemergedduringanalysisofthe results .
Number of holdings in the gr
Total no, of return- ing hold- inge
Total No. of retur:
holdings in groups 2-io
Total number of
No. of groups
F.B» Figures not underlined refer to holding groups proposed for representation by the Regional Committee when selecting the returning holdings* Figures underlined refer to groups which emerged during analysis of the results*
lumber of Totalmunb«j· holdings in of returning ;
Cotai No. of groups £10
Total nimber of returning holdu
of returning 44 holdings
The present annex contains :
A - Presentation of average results by groups of returning holdings
B - Standard definitions additional to those in the regu­ lations relating to the FADN
C - Main farm production and farm income criteria D - Farm types
The average results by groups of returning holdings are given in the consolidated tables at Annex V.
The tables are arranged in groups of two on two facing pages. The reader can thus study all the results for one group without turning the page. The lefthand page (even number) gives the 1973 results in EUR, the page facing (uneven number) gives the indices of change between "1972 and 1973" in identical criteria to those in the pre­ ceding table.
This form of presentation makes it possible to assess at a glance the level and annual trends of the different factors, inputs, out­ puts and incomes for each group of holdings.
The headings of both series of tables first of all contain inform­ ation appearing in the tables generally, namely :
The results of all returning holdings falling within groups of 10 or more holdings for which the Commission holds farm returns ' properly completed.
Indices calculated on the basis of 1972 ® 100 for all holdings which appeared in the entire FADN sample for both "1972" and "1973" irrespective of the type of farming and the size of the holdings involved for each accounting year.
The returning holdings of the constant sample are classified on the basis of their type of farming and size in 1973*
Each table also includes a specific heading which is reflected in the
title of each column. The main purpose of the heading ia to identify
the groups of returning holdings to which the average results in each column of the table relate.
Ortmp of holdings means a group of returning holdings belonging to a given farming type category, a given size category and a given div­ ision . Certain groups can also be constituted at national level .
Groups taken into account were established on the basis of the Commun­ ity typology of farms which is presented(in refined form) in the follow­
The refinements made to the Community scheme of classification revealed the very heterogeneous nature of certain groups of holdings, for which results have been given in previous reports. The groups in the "Cattle" farming type are particularly heterogeneous in certain countries where cattle breeding is highly specialized, as in the United Kingdom for example. The average results for these groups which are not sub-divided are therefore of little value and do not make it possible to detect the often divergent trends which appear within the type of farming.
The items of information contained in the heading of each table are the following :
- type of farming (general title)
- size (UAA) ( sub-title generally covering several columns )
- division number (preceded by the symbol of the country in which
it is situated); this code is thus the heading for the columns of tables.
Some columns of tables carry, beside the division number, the symbol B which refers to groups of holdings whose representation had not been specifically foreseen by the relevant regional committee, but which appeared following the a posteriori reclassification on the basis of the farm return data and not on the original statistical data used
for stratifying the field of survey.
The columns of tables appearing in this annex are arranged according to the code number of categories of holdings; thus category 111 "General Agriculture" precedes category 112 "Horticulture" etc.
The tables also include columns for the results of the national total of returning holdings belonging to a given category of holding.
This national total includes not only holdings belonging to regional groups of ten or more returning holdings previously mentioned, but also all those which are isolated in divisions where these groups are represented by less than ten returning holdings.
At the request of several national liaison agenoies, certain columns giving the national average data of the accounting sample which, in respect of certain categories, was not considered sufficiently reliable from a statistical point of view with regard to certain categories,were not included in this report. In order to avoid
duplication, the average national results have been omitted when they correspond to those of the division (e.g. B, N, L, IRL, DK).
Each of the 46 lines of the tables at Annex V relates to one of the 119 criteria used for describing the economic situation of the groups of returning holdings under survey.
Of the 119 criteria, some, the fixed criteria, were systematically used irrespective of the group of holdings. Others, the variable
criteria, were employed only for describing the situation of certain groups of holdings engaged in certain types of farming. Thus thirty fixed criteria and about fifteen out of a total of eighty-nine var­
iable criteria were employed to describe the economic situation of the returning holdings. The following summary table indicates the types of farming for which each variable criterion was used.
Type of
 Type of
– of
Most of the definitions used in preparing the results given in the tables are taken directly from the Regulations of the Council and the Commission of the European Communities relating to the farm account­ ancy data network ( l ). Some additional definitions , however , proved necessary for proper evaluation of the data. These definitions, to­ gether with details on the methods of calculating the 119 criteria used in presenting the results by groups of holdings, are given below.
The user of the data appearing in the following tables should refer to the definitions and methods of calculating the data so as to avoid any misinterpretation.
The main points to be dealt with are firstly the accounting year and the common monetary unit used in presenting the results.
Accounting year :
The accounting year corresponds to a period of twelve consecutive months beginning at some date between 1 January and 1 July, depending
on the type of farming, the country and in certain cases even on individual farms .
The accounting year is indicated by the calendar year 'in which it begins given in inverted commas for the sake of simplification.
(l) Regulation N° 79/65/EEC of the Council, Regulations N°s 9^-/66/EEX3r
and N° I84/66/EEC of the Commission (see booklet on "The Farm Accountancy Data Network of the European Economic Community",
second. edition, Office for Official Publications of the European Communities N° 8396).
Example : "1973 represents all the accounting years which begin "between 1 January and 1 July , 1973 .
The accountancy data collected by the PAIN which are the "basis of the results appearing in the tables given below relate to the following specific accounting years :
a) For the six original Member States
- horticultural and fruit holdings
. 1.5;1973 - 30.04.1974 (Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands) . 1.7.1973 - 30.06.1974 (Germany)
b) For the three new Member States
. 1.5.1973 - 30.04.1974 (16$ of holdings all types) . 1.6.1973 - 31.05.1974 (28$ of holdings all types) . 1.7.1973 - 30106.1974 (56$ of holdings all types)
- Ireland :
. 1.1.1973 - 31.12.1973 (98$ of holdings)
. during the first quarter (2$ of holdings)
. 1.1.1973 - 3li12.1973 (25$ holdings) . 1.2.1973 - 31.01.1974 (3$ of holdings) . 1.3.1973 - 28.02.1974 (51° of holdings) . 1.4U973 - 30.03.1974 (29$ of holdings) . 1.5.1973 - 30.04.1974 (5$ of holdings)
. 1.6.1973 - 31.05.1974 (5$ of holdings)
• During the first quarter (4% holdings)
. During the second quarter (15# holdings)
Thus, the extension of the FADN to the three new Member States has further complicated the timetables of the accounting year.
Monetary Unit (EUR)
Until 1972 the common monetary unit used in presenting accounting
statistics and data at European level was the unit of acount (u.a.).
Because some Member States introduced floating exchange rates, the
unit of account was subsequently replaced for statistical purposes
by a new unit called the EUR. In 1973 the data expressed in national
currencies were converted into EUR by using the parities or central rates declared to the IMF. The EUR conversion rates for the account­
ancy data expressed in national currencies were determined on a "pro rata temporis" basis, in view of the calendar period covered by the accounting years in the various countries. Only one conver-, sion rate is applied by each Member State. Thus some Member States having equivalent currencies applied different conversion rates for "1973" simply because the accounting years began at different dates
(e.g. Ireland and the United Kingdom).
The EUR" rates for the "1973" accountancy data expressed in national currencies were as follows :
For the purpose of comparing the "1973" results with those of previous years, some monetary data contained in certain tables appearing in this reportwereagainexpressedinu.a. Allthemonetarydatainthetables of this annex, however, are expressed in EUR.
The definition or definitions of each of the 119 criteria employed are as follows, together with details on the method of calculation. Many of these definitions refer to the definitions and instructions relating to the farm return (1) as adopted by the Commission.
/T7 Number of returning holdings
Number of holdings for which the Commission holds a properly com­ pleted farm return and which fall within the group of holdings under consideration (groups of 10 or more returning holdings).
Utilized agricultural area : All arable land, meadows and permanent pasture and permanent crops (the farmer's kitchen garden is not included);thisareaisexpressedinhectares. TheUAAiscalc­ ulated by taking the total UAA of the holdings in a group and dividing it by the number of holdings.
The Annual Labour Unit (ALU) is the activity of a person who works at least 280 days or 2,380 hours on the holding.
One person is regarded as one annual labour year unit at most. The number of ALU on a holding is determined as follows :
(1) See Annex II to Commission Regulation N° 118/66/EEC of 29 July 1966. OJN°148(seeFADNbooklet,2ndedition,pages39etseq.; N° 8396, Office for Official Publications of the European Communities ) .
Persons who work 280 days (or 2,380 hours) or more on the holding are regarded as one unit. Persons who work less than 280 days
(or 2,380 hours) are converted into ALU by dividing the number of working days by 280 or the number of hours by 2,380.
The ALU average is calculated taking the total ALU of all the hold­ ings in a group and dividing it by the number of holdings in that group .
The farm capital is the value of the livestock, equipment and working capital (stock and other, working capital) as assessed at the beginning and end of the accounting year.
The value of the farm capital is the average of the book values at the beginning and end of the year; this average is calculated by dividing the total farm capital of all holdings in a group by the number of holdings in that group.
/5 to 30/ Criteria of land use
Land use is measured by the area expressed in hectares assigned to the production of the various main crops.
The area indicated is obtained by dividing the total area assigned to a given crop in all the holdings in a group by the number of holdings in that group.
The following description includes only the headings requiring a special mention. With regard to the other headings the reader is asked to refer to the FADN booklet (1) which provides details on the products listed under each of the different headings.
5. Arable land : Land assigned to "General Agriculture" and/or "Vine Crops" production.
Permanent crops : Crops other than permanent pasture and not forming part of a system of rotation, which remain in the
ground for a number of years yielding harvests each year.
30. Meadow and permanent pasture? : Land forming part of the util­
ized agricultural area, not rotated but permanently assigned
(for 5 years or more) to the production of green forage crops,
whether sown or wild, and, generally maintained with fertil­ izers .
Animals are generally represented by livestock units (LU) and per animal when considered in detail.
Livestock-Unit (LU) : A Livestock Unit represents one animal present on the holding for the whole year with a feed requirement of 3,000 fodder units. The various categories of animals are converted into LU by multiplying the number (number of head) by the coefficient given below.
One head of livestock corresponds to the presence of 1 animal on the holding for 365 days or 12 months.
The livestock number (number of animals) is determined by adding the entire number of animals on the holdings falling within a group of holdings and dividing the total thus obtained by the number
of holdings in that group.
The animal species taken into consideration under each of the headings 32 to 45 are those listed in the instructions annexed to Commission Regulation N° 118/66/EEC (part F).
 Conversion coefficients to be applied
in determining the number of animals in LU
Draught horses 0.8 Other horses 0.5 Mules, linnies, asses 0.4 Cattle under 1 year old 0.4 Heifers 0.5 Cows exclusively for milking 1.0 Milk and draught cows 0.8 Other cattle for work 0.9 Cattle for fattening 1.0 Bullocks and bulls 0.7 Buffaloes (of all ages) 0.8 Sheep (of all ages) 0.1 Goats (of all ages) 0.1 Boars 0.4 Breeding sows 0.5 Piglets of under 20 kg live weight
Pigs for fattening and other pigs of 20 kg and over live weight
Cockerels and table fowl (per 100 head) 0.7 Laying hens (per 100 head) 1.4
Other poultry (ducks, turkeys, geese and guinea fowl per 100 head)
Gross production is all the produce obtained in the accounting
year. It includes the products sold, provided in kind, con­ sumed on the farm and stored.
The components of gross production appear on the farm return. These products are listed under Nos 47 to 74 and must be given in the results according to the type of holding under consider­ ation .
The average gross production per ha UAA of a given group of holdings is obtained by dividing the total gross production of the holding in the group by the total number of ha UAA of those holdings.
All the farm input for the accounting year, including the means of production and services "consumed" to obtain the production of the year whether bought or produced by the holding
(farm use). Inputs also include expenditure on land and buildings and interest payments. The amount of the input is determined by dividing the total input of all the holdings in a group by the total number of ha UAA of those holdings.
The total input cannot be given for couhtries (Belgium, Luxem­ bourg, Netherlands, Ireland, United Kingdom) where it is optional to complete heading N° 27 on the farm return (bank interest and charges on borrowings).
Criteria 76 to 82 correspond to the nomenclature appearing in Annex 2 to Regulation N° 118/66/EEC. The headings listed below have been regrouped :
78. Mechanisation costs : All depreciation and current main­ tenance of machinery and equipment and cost of fuels and lubricants .
79. Specific crop costs : All seeds and seedlings, fertilizers and soil ameliorators, water for irrigation, crop protection, miscellaneous crop costs.
80. Specific livestock costs : All feed for horses, cattle, sheep
and goats, pigs, poultry and other small livestock, misc­ ellaneous livestock costs.
81. Overheads : All headings : current upkeep of farm buildings, structures and land improvements; electricity, fuel, water; insurance (other than that covering labour, crops and live­ stock); taxes and dues chargeable to the business (other than land taxes ); miscellaneous.
82. Outgoings for Land and Buildings : All headings : depreciation of fixed equipment, structures, land improvements and found­ ations; taxes on land and buildings and related charges; fire
insurance on farm buildings; rent.
Criteria Nos. 83 to 99 indicate the amount of gross production per production unit; with regard to crops, production unit means a hectare under main crops and, in the case of livestock, the livestock unit already defined (see heading 31)»
Gross production per unit is calculated by dividing the total gross production of a group of holdings by all the production units in those holdings.
Net production per unit is given only for "grazing stock", "pigs" and"poultry"(criteria100to102). Itisobtainedbydeduct­ ing the total of the livestock feed costs (including farm
use ) from the gross production of one of these three head­ ings .
The net production per unit is obtained by dividing the total net production of all holdings in a group by the total number of livestock units in those holdings.
/103 to 10$/ Results per hectare UAA
103» Gross product : All the crops sold, provided in kind,
home.-consumed and stored. It is thus the gross pro­ duction less farm use.
10^. Gross farm income : Balance after deducting from the gross product all purchases of goods and services required for production purposes during the year.
105. Net farm income : Balance remaining after deducting de­ preciation of machinery and equipment from the farm
All the results expressed per hectare UAA are obtained by divid­ ing the total amount for all the holdings in a group by the total number of hectare UAA of those holdings.
The following diagram gives the method of calculating the criteria of income. It is necessary to use non-survey data to determine the two incomes marked with an asterisk (notional return on
owner-managed farm capital).
The various incomes expressed per ALU were obtained by dividing the total amount of the income for all the holdings in a group by the number of ALU in those holdings.
/110 to 119/ Breakdown of holdings on the basis of earned income per ALU
Criteria 110 to 119 each correspond to an earned income category perALU;eachcategoryscalegiveninstepsof2,000EUR. The number of returning holdings is given for each income category.
The second part of the table giving the indices of change include^ the numbers of holdings and not indices set against these criteria. Plus or minus numbers show an increase or a decrease in the numbers
of the corresponding class between "1972" and "1973"»
Criteria numbers h6 to 119 are expressed in values excluding VAT.
With regard to holdings which opted for the flat rate VAT scheme for farmers and for which VAT "neutrality" is not provided each year, criteria 103 to 119 are expressed in values including VAT so as to determine the real results of these holdings for an accounting year.
DIAGRAMMATIC PRESENTATION OP MAIN PABM PRODUCTIQB AND PARM INCOME MEASURES (Letter# and figures in brackets refer to entries oa the BBC Para Beturn)
/E 100/8 to X 100/13 ♦ X/100/15 + I 100/16 - I 100/5 * 0 22/6 to 0 22/11 ♦ 0 22/13 - 0 22/2 - a 22/3)
Social Seourity charges Rent Paid! Rent Paid|
Peed, ?eed and Plants Purohaaed (H 9/4 to B 11/4 ♦
Other Supplies and Servioas Purohased (*)
Paid(**) Interest Paid I f ! (H 26/4) I (H27/4)Otherlandand|(H '4)j
and Social Seourf Ity Charges Paidi
tion of |
machinery j and equlp*i aq&t(R 6/4]
(H 9/5 to H 11/5 ♦ H 13/5)
Wages, Salaries and ;
<*) H 5/44- H 7/4+H 8/4+H 12/4+H 14/4 to H 20/4 + H22/4
(»») H 1/4+H 3/4 - D2/9 - Dl/9 (exoluding Operator's salary where not a member of Holder's family)
(...) 5■£ of I 4/2 to I 9/2 ♦ I 4/4 to I 9/4
Goods and Services Purohased (H 5/4 to H 22/4)
subdivided^ ordinary wine
I not specialised
2245 ) neither k.nor l.nor m >; 2250 E>4
2200 neither C, nor D, nor E
I^KIVcI; I<.IV 3365 [(neither n, nor o>?£
two or more of these specific types (C, D or E)
Forage crop production and stock farming depen-/ dent on the land
sheep and goats (c)
cattle, sheep and goats (P and G) arable cropping
stock farming independent of the land
Stock farming inde­ pendent of the land
( not 1"'
combined with
combined with'
stock farming dependent on the land stock farming independent of the land
not subdivided 2230 (fresh fruit 2231 I dried fruit 2232 rubdividedQ citrus fruits 2233 [not specialised 2235 not subdivided 2240 2241
[neither h, nor
x combined with
< concentrating combined with-
neither P, nor C^ji; li*.IV<III; IleIV
jneither p, norq>£
stock farming dependent on the land stock farming independent of the land
. not subdivided fmilk subdivided) meat
[not specialised
•pigs and poultry (H and K) .arable cropping
stock farming dépendent on the land
neither H, nor K>-£- fil*I*IV; III<I
2 . according to
to type of
not subdivided
other cereals
subdivided/ other products of gen.agr.
[not specialised not subdivided
horticulture (B jmarket gardening under glass(e) 11 22 subdividedtfloriculture outdoor (f) 1123 floriculture under glass (g 1124 not specialised 1125
general agriculture and horticulture (A and B) 1100
ftable grapes wineofcontroledvintage
subdivided Threading
Example : the class coded 33o1«h corresponds to dairy holdings of 20 to 50 ha.
neither a. nor b, nor c >
neither d, nor e, nor f, { nor
neither A, nor B
5500 neither I. nor II, nor III, nor IV:■1, >
Constant sample (odd numbered pages)
The sign ■ on the following pages indicates : Group of holdings not envisaged by the Regional Committee
The criteria marked by an asterisk (*) are determined from the accounting data and other information.
It 718
The present annex contains :
A - Meteorological conditions
The beginning of the year was marked "by fairly favourable weather. There were only a few night frosts and these were confined to the British Isles and Denmark. However, disastrous floods affected
southern Italy and Sicily. The mild weather continued until mid-
February, except in the Mediterranean areas where rain was heavy owing to a belt of low pressure situated over that region. Towards mid-February arctic air-streams brought a return to more typical winter conditions and, after a period of calm anti-cyclonic weather, early March produced frequent night frosts in Prance, Benelux, Germany and Denmark. Britain, however, enjoyed some respite as a result of a low pressure zone situated over the Atlantic and it was only towards the middle of March that this belt extended to the other regions of the European Community.
Generally speaking, spring was mainly variable and cool, especially in the northern regions. Heavy rain fell in north-western Prance with temperatures slightly above normal while the weather was dry in Italy and southern Prance . Thus , spring was generally favourable to agriculture, with acceptable temperatures and adequate rain, except in Italy.
Summer started with temperatures perceptably higher than normal, with maximum daytime temperatures already reaching 40°C in Italy in mid- July. Crops in Denmark suffered from lack of rain and the drought caused numerous fires in Italy.
At the same time in other Community regions rain fell on almost every day. At Manby in England a record rainfall of 57TM in 24 hours was recorded in mid-July; Germany experienced a record rainfall of 60mm in 12 hours in Schleswig.
In August and September the weather was mainly dry, particularly in
the extreme north of the European Community with a deficit of 20mm in
Scotland and of 50mm in the extreme south in the Mezzogiorno. However,
violent storms caused serious damage to agriculture particularly in northern Britain.
The weather was changeable throughout the Community during October, except in Italy and southern Prance where it was unusually mild.
A distinct drop in temperature , due to arctic air-streams , was recorded in November and night frosts began to make their appearance in France and southern Germany. Temperatures remained around 0°C in early December but rose towards the end of the year to reach maximum levels of 10°C in Great Britain and 20°C in the Mediterranean.
The map showing the localization of the meteorological offices is given overleaf; their observations are published by the Statistical Office of the European Communities, from which the preceding information has
been obtained (cf. "Agricultural Statistics - series Crop Production").
Belmullet 9 Birr 70 Cork 153 United- Kingdom Wick 39 Stomoway 9 Tiree 12 Prestwick 20 Carlisle 26 Belfast 82 Manby 19 Valley 10 Birmingham 99 Honington 51 London 59 St. Mawgan 119 Denmark
Limoges 285 Clermont-Ferrand 332 Lyon 200 Cognac 30
 Wheat
Total cereals (rice not included
Sugar beet 407
"1971" and "1972" were both good farming years with record yields from several crops; in "1973", however, yields were even hetter.
This further improvement was due to the very favourable weather conditions, which aided the growth of crops throughout the year.
The following table summarizes the rise in crop yields in the en­ larged Community from "1970" to "1973"'
* Methodological discontinuity following the compilation of the Italian Wine Register.
I. Main conclusions based on the statistical data
The preceding data give rise to the following conclusions : a) Cereals
Total cereals production (excluding rice) in the enlarged Commun­ ity amounted to 106 million t in 1973 (1972 = 103). This record crop was due solely to the high average yield, 39»7 q/ha (1972 : 38.3)t since the overall area under these crops declined by more than 1# (26,655,000 ha in 1973; 26,952,000 ha in 1972). France
and Germany were the largest producers, particularly of maize, for which the average yield was the highest ever; it increased by 18# in the Community as a whole (55»2 q/ha in 1973? ^6.8 a/ha in 1972).
The potato crop, 39*9 million t C+0.7 million mt in 1972) in the enlarged Community was the smallest for many decades, the reason being the steady reduction in the area under cultivation. The yield was very high (269 q/ha, an increase of 12# on the 1966-70 average. Germany and France, which supplied about 53% of the Community crop , together produced more than 21 million t
(23 million.in 1972), i.e., about 7# less than in the pre­
vious year. There was a decline of in the area under potatoes /average yield for 1973 (EEC 6) was down 3# on 1972/.
c) Sugar beet
As a result of the rise in the area under cultivation, a record quantity of 71»673»000 .t of sugar beet (EEC 9) was produced (+5.3#on1972). ThehighestyieldswererecordedintheNether­ lands and Belgium. Production increased by 13# and 19# in these two countries respectively, while the area under cultivation remained almost unchanged.
Total fruit production (including citrus fruits) for the whole Community increased by 12.k% over 1972 (16,711,000 t in 1972;
18,780,000 t in 1973)* Admittedly the harvest, particularly of apples, was rather poor in 1972.
1973 can be generally considered as a good year for fruit grow­ ing (apples, pears and quinces as well as small fruit )
mainly because of the favourable weather conditions in the Community at blossom time.
The record apple crop in Ge many (1,239,000 t in 1972; 2,016,000 t in 1973) showed an increase of 62,7% over 1972.
The only poor harvest was in nuts, mainly as a result of the sharp drop in almond production in Italy (133,000 t in 1972; 66,000 t in 1973) which alone accounts for one third of Comm­ unity output. The almond crop, which has been declining for some years was the smallest ever.
Owing to the favourable weather conditions, vine products im­ proved in volume and quality over 1972. There was a very large increase in production (40.5%) in France, while Italy recorded a 27# increase. In the Community as a whole, production rose by
(127,30^,000 hi in 1972; 170,646,000 hi in 1973). The area under wine grapes, however, increased by only 1.2$.
 Sugar beet
II. Mam conclusions based on the accounting results
The following table contains a series of indices showing the trends in yields (statistical basis) and financial returns (basis,FADN) for the original Community in "1972" and "1973".
Yield (statistical basis)(1) qx/ha
Wheat I 103
(not including rice)
Sugar beet
It will be seen that the accountancy data confirms the trends established on the basis of statistics, although in accentuated or attenuated form.
III.. Results varied greatly according to the type of holdings and divisions ; these differences explain , to a certain extent , the level of income which is related to the type of holding production under consideration .
Groups of holdings having a utilized agricultural area of 5 à 10 ha
30 Campania, Calabria, Molise 37 Danmark
44 England East Region
41 England North Region
43 England West Region
44 England East Region
Groups of holdings having a utilized agricultural area of
36 Nederland | 1512 93 20 à 50 ha
36 Nederland 1485 82 37 Danmark 1733
44 England East Region 1171
41 England North Region 43 England West Region 44 England East Region
44 England East Region 692
41 England North Region 43 England West Region 44 England East Region
Groups of holdings having a utilized agricultiarai area of : 5 à 10 ha
36 Nederland 37 Danmark
From the following table it can be seen that only Belgium and the Netherlands showed a growth rate (of 2% and 3% respectively) in the annual average yields for "1973" as against "1972".
In the other countries, the yields, which had been increasing steadily since 1969» dropped in "1973".
The narrowing of the gap between the trends in milk yields at national level and that in gross yield per cow to be seen in the FADN returning holdings (see table below), confirms the fact that the increase in the price of milk has more than compensated for reduced yields.
It will be observed that in 1973 Luxembourg (in the EEC 6) had the the highest rate of increase over 1972 in annual gross yield per cow; the producer price of milk also increased to a greater extent than in any other country of the original Community.
3Y COUNTRY,UAA CATEGORY, AND NUMBER OF COWS PER HOLDING (Category 336)
of cows per holding
In 1973, however, there were striking differences in gross yields per cow according to size of dairy herd and UAA category (see follow­ ing table) of the holdings, largely as a result of disparities in producer prices which were closely related to the devaluation of certain currencies.
utilized agricultural area : 5 à 10 ha
39 Northern Ireland
Groups of holdings with dairy herds averaging :
Groups of holdings with dairy herds averaging
utilized agricultural area 5 à 10 ha
26 Emilia - Romagna 737 34 Belgique/België 434 36 Nederland 537 37 Danmark 577
39 Northern Ireland
39 Northern Ireland
Groups of holdings with dairy herds averaging .
utilized agricultural area 10 à 20 ha
41 England North Region 42 Wales
43 England West Region
44 England East Region
41 England North Region 43 England West Region 44 England East Region
Groups of holdings with dairy herds averaging :
utilized agricultural area : 20 à 50 ha
Groups of holdings with dairy herds averaging :
41 or more cows
utilized agricultural area 20 à 50 ha
The present annex contains :
A - Breakdown by division of returning holdings categorized according to the level of labour income per ALU (holdings constituting groups of ten or more returning holdings).
B.1 - Breakdown of returning holdings according to the level of labour income per ALU and according to category of holding (holdings constituting the complete sample - national basis)
B.2 - Breakdown of returning holdings according to the level of work per ALU and according to the specialized category
(holdings constituting the complete sample).
C.1 - Regional distribution of labour income per ALU for categories of returning holdings represented in ten or more divisions
Qb2 - Regional distribution of labour income £er ALU for returning holdings engaged in certain specialized productions.
D - Labour income per ALU by farm type and by country (holdings constituting the complete sample - national basis).
39 Northern Ireland 40Scotland
43 England West Region 44 England East Region
(holdings constituting groups of ten or more returning holdings)
Type of farming Division
(holdings constituting the complete sample - national basis)
120*1 Arable land - permanent crops 120*2 Arable land - permanent crops 120*3 Arable land - permanent crops 120*4 Arable land - permanent crops 130*1 Arable land - grazine stook 130*2 Arable land - grazing steck 130*3 Arable land - grazing stook 130*4 Arable land - grazing stock 130*5 Arable land - grazing stock 140*2 Arable land - Pigs and poultry 140*3 Arable land * pigs and poultry 140*4 Arable land - pigs and poultry 140*5 Arable land - pigs and poultry 210*1 Permanent crops - arable land 210*2 Permanent crops - arable land 210*3 Permanent crops - arable land 210*4 Permanent crops - arable land 220*1 Mixed permanent crops
240*2 Permanent crops - pigs and poul.try
550*2Others TOTAL
Crazing stock - pigs and poultry Grazing stock - pigs and poultry Grazing stock - pigs and poultry Grazing stock - pigs and poultry Pigs and poultry - arable land Pigs and poultry - arable land Pig· and poultry - arable land Pig® and poultry - arable land
Pig® wk* poultry - grazing stock Pise and poultry - grazing stock Pigs and poultry - grazing stock Ρige and poultry - grazing stock
(holdings constituting the complete sample)
Ciasses of labour income (EUR/ALU)
Category of holding
41 England North Region 42Wales
43 England Weet Region 44 England East Region
39NorthernIreland
the indices appearing in the present table are determined in relation to the average labour income per ALU (=100*) for each type of holding under consideration#
Category of holding
Northorn Ireland Scotland
England ÎTorth Region VTales
England West Region . England East Region
(*) The indices appearing in the present table are determined in relation
to the labour income per ALU (= 100) for each of the types of holding considered.
 Type of farming
120 'Arable land - permanent crops
I40 Arable land - grazing stock
4IO and poultry - arable land
No. of return . holding
¡To. of (sun) return . holding
No. of (SUR) return . holding
IV Pigs and poultry Total of farming types
UJ LABOURINCOMEPERALU3YFARMTYPEANDBYCOUNTRY
BELGIQUE No. of
N'o. of lolding
No. of holding
No. of,
No. of (Era)'!o. of
o. of loldings
(holdinrs constituting the complete sample - national basis)
The present annex contains :
A - Distribution of returning holdings related to particular types of farm businesses according to 10 grades of income per labour unit by ALU
- situation in "1973" and evolution "1972 - 1973"
B - Graph "Trends of income per ALU between "1972" and "1973" according to farm type and economy (total original Community)
C - Changes in the structural characteristics of the accountancy results between "1969" and "1973" by farming types (accord­ ing to constant samples)
The following histogram shows each of the principal trends of farm economies examined, with the distribution of the labour income per ALU shown in the holdings of 20 to 50 ha (1) from the accounting sample "1973" (nine Member States) on the one hand and trends of the aforesaid incomes for the corresponding constant sample "1972" - "1973" (six original Member States), on the other hand.
It will be noticed on the histogram :
-thereturningholdingsofthesix original Member States
- the returning holdings of the three new Member States
- the holdings which have left this income category between 1972 and 1973
(1) Horticultural holdings constitute an exception; this only concerns holdings whose UAA is less than 5 ha.
Holdings represented
% of field of survey rep.*: 66 Countries : F,I.B|N,UK>
Returning holdings Holdings changing categ. Changes in income categ.
Holdings represented ; Returning holdings : 143
Returning holdings Holdings changing categ. Changes in income categ.
<-2,000 EUR to>1^000 EIR Eg Category N° 3 (0 to 2,000 FUR)
% of field of survey rep. : Countries : f,I,N.
Holdings represented Returning holdings
% of field of survey Ν c?jin£r.y. JL–L11Z
Country : p. S Country ; F-
The""lÖTMc^êgoïTës~^"ïncome"~crorrespond"to"stepsoT'2,000EUR rangingfrom <-2,000 EUR to >14,000 EUR. Eg. Category N° 3 (0 to 2,000 EUR)
Holdings represented
Returning holdings Holdings changing categ. Changes in income categ.
Holdings changing categ. Changes in income categ. Countries s D.F,T,B,L.N.
% of field of survey rep. . 98 Countries :J5,F,I,B,l.,N, 0K,IRL,UK.
3 " 4" j5"T"T"0*T' 1"0 Holdings represented . ~
The 10* categories of income correspond to steps of 2,000 EUR, ranging fri <--2,000 EUR to >1^,000 EUR. Eg. Category N° 3 (0 to 2,000 EUR)
% of field of survey rep. ; - Countries :D,P,I,B,L,N,UK,iKLtl
 3365 Mixt (milk and meat) 20 – 50 ha
Returning holdings Holdings changing categ. Changes in income categ. Countries: D,F,I,B,L
Holdings represented
% of the field of survey :rep.~ Countries • T,ii,L,D..,..IKL
Changes in income categ. Countries : DrF.
Holdings represented Returning holdings
% of field of survey rep. S Countries :i),F,lKL, UK.
Thj IU categories of income correspond to steps of 2,000 EUR, ranging from < -?,000 EUR to >1^,000 EUR. Eg. Category N° 3 (0 to 2,000 EUR)
130 Arable land - grazing stock 20 - 50 ha
Holdings represented : 12.452 Returning holdings : 260 % of field of survey rep. : 20 Countries concerned : F,I*B,N,UK
Holdings changing categ. I 7'30 j Changes in income categ. : 42 V' {
Countries.concerned »P,JM,B J
The 10 categories of income correspond to steps of 2,000 EUR, ranging from . /-2,000£Ukto>1*t,0C0EUR. Eg.CategoryN°3(0to2,000EUR)
310 'Gracing stock" - arable land 20 - 50 ha
Holdings represented
% of field of survey rep. Countries concerned : F.I.N ...
t Changes in income categ. j 23 {
(Original Community members)
The following graphs show by type of farming, in given order of labour income per ALU for "1973", with the difference of the "1972" performance, all of the original Member States.
The scale in EUR is based on the conversion rate of "1973" applied to
both years in order to avoid any effects of variations in the exchange rates.
For the sake of clarity, each symbol represents a barycentre of all return­ ing holdings corresponding to a Division, and a subdivision of farm
types from the constant sample "1973" - "197^"«
The following symbols represent :
. a group of less than 10 returning holdings
o a group between 10 and 20 returning holdings o a group between 20 and 50 returning holdings
Q a group of more than 50 returning holdings
These calculations are always based on the individual data taking into account the number of ALU per holding. A legend with each graph gives the number of groups, the number of holdings, the distribution of this number according to the countries (shown as D, F, I, B, L, or N), the coefficients of the regression line, the correlation coefficient and the standard deviation .
The regression is shown as a continuous line on the graph; the line of similar incomes is shown as a discontinuous line.
The standard deviation defines the area where 68% of the survey is carriedout. Thiszonemaybedefinedonthegraphbytwoparallelsto thelineofregression,oneitherside. Thedistancebetweeneachofthe
parallels from the line of regression corresponds to the standard deviation and can be measured along the length of the ordinate.
The types of farming shown here are :
Arable land and grazing stock Fruit cultivation
Dairying Beef cattle
Non specialised cattle Grazing stock and arable land
Elsewhere the graphs show the four principal types of farming as has been used in the text.
BYC0UÏ1TRY D F I 0 Ν
Utilized agricultural area
(according to constant sapmles)
581 52 Nederland 898
Danmark 1 407 Ireland 56O
+ 1 t 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Whm
Luxembourg 1 . 816 Nederland 99.607
Danmark 107.463 91 Ireland 88.000 78
(England West (Region
55%39NorthernIreland 76%
]>* 38 Ireland 40 Scotland
AA (England East (Region
(Nederland )
(Emili a--Romagna) ( Nederland )
( Nederland ) (Danmark)
23 (Northern
45 ( Northern
56 (Northern Ireland )
Ireland ) Ireland )
-P–1-T"hI -fX-–^T-r-It -H=hJ-F ~h-n -F-–i 1
L'a'iUVe'T'eVtJ- to /•
Nederland 42 100 106 116
41 England Nartk Raglan 42 Valas
43 England Vast Raglan 44 England East Raglan
Kornf.husdyr - agerbrug Kornf . dyr-perm . bepl ant .
Kornf.husdyr - agerbrug Kornf . dyr-perm . bepl ant .
Kornf.husdyr - agerbrug Kornf . dyr-perm . bepl ant .
Kornf.husdyr - agerbrug Kornf . dyr-perm . bepl ant .
Kornf.husdyr - agerbrug Kornf . dyr-perm . bepl ant .
Kornf.husdyr - agerbrug Kornf . dyr-perm . bepl ant .
Kornf.husdyr - agerbrug Kornf . dyr-perm . bepl ant .
Perm . be plant .–Agerjord
Kornf.husdyr – agerbrug Kornf . dyr-perm . bepl ant .
39 Sorthern Ireland
43 England Hest Region 44 England East Region
O TIL 2000 EUR 2000 TIL 40C0 EUR 4000 TIL cOCO EUR 6000 TIL 8000 EUR 8000 TIt 1000C EUR 10000 TIL 12000 EUR 12000 TIL 14000 FUR 14000 EUR OG MERE
fll GENF^FLLF OMKOSTNING 82 JORD UG BYCN . OMKOST .
RI GFNFRFLLE OMKOSTNING R2 JORD OG 8 YC>N . OMKOST .
47 Limoges 285 48 Clermont-Ferrand 332 49 Lyon 200 50 Cognac 30 51 Nice/C.d'A. 4 52 Toulouse 152 53 Montpellier 5 54 Biarritz 75 55 Toulon 28 56 Perpignan 43
England North Region
England 1-,'eεt Region England East Region
England last Region
44 England Ea.st Region
41 England North Region
43 England West Region
44 England East Region
36 Nederland c.
36 Nederland 37 I&nmarlc
44 England East Region
Bourgogne 36 Nederland 37 Danmark 41 England 43 England 44 England
39 Northern Ire1and
39 Northern Irelnnd
39 Northern Ireland
41 England North Region 42 Wales
43 England West Region
44 England East Regior.
41 England North Region 43 England Ivest Reg-ion 44 Engloncl E'T.t Regi on
39 lJorthem Ireland 40Scotland
41 England North Eegicn 42Wales
43 England West Segion 44 England Sast Hegion
39 Northern Ireland
41 England North Region 42 Wales
43 England West Region 44 England East Region
Northern Ireland Scotland
England ITc-rth Region Vales
England V:est Region . England East Region
