I. According to the pr&visions of the Interim Agreement and of the Additional Protocol, the new Member States and Greece shall apply, until 31 December 1977» different customs duties and charges having equivalent effect from those appli­
cable under the Agreement of Association in trade between the Community as originally constituted and Greece.
In order to ensure the proper implementation of provisions governing intra-Asso-
ciation trade the Council of Association should adopt
- the methods ' of administrative co-operation for implementation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Athens Agreement for intra-Association trade j
- special provisions on the percentage of C.C.T. duties to be used to determine the rate of the compensatory levy referred to in Article 8 of the Agreement , of Association in respect of trade between the new Member States and Greece.
The two draft Decisions (Annexes I + II), agreed by the Customs Co-operation Committee EEC-Greece at the 6th meeting (Brussels 17-18 March 1975) are annexed accordingly .
II. The Council of the European Economic Communities is invited, by virtue of Article 113 of the EEC Treaty, to adopt the necessary provisions to give effect to the aforesaid Community Decisions.
The regulation proposed for this purpose is at Annex III.
on methods of administrative co-operation for implementation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Agreement establishing an Association "between
the EEC and Greece
Having regard to the Agreement establishing an Association between the European
Economic Community and Greece ; and particularly article 9» having regard to the Interim Agreement in force since [1 July 1975/and particularly article 12
WHEREAS an Additional Protocol was signed on [_ ./and an Interim Agreement anticipate to certain provisions of the Additional Protocol on trade was signed
^on the same date/5
WHEREAS a Convention, concluded" pursuant to Article 9 of the Agreement of Association between the governments of Member States of the Community as originally constituted and the Community and the Greek government and signed on 26 September 1962 in Brussel
laid down the methods of administrative co-operation for the implementation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Agreement of Association j
WHEREAS Article 4 of the Additional Protocolyprovides for an amendment to Article 9
of the Agreement of Association so that the methods of administrative co-operation for the implementation of Articles 7 and. 8 of the said Agreement may be determined by the Council of Association whereas pending the entry into force of the said Protocol and in anticipation of the amendment to be made , Article 12 of the Interim Agreement delegates this matter to the Council of Association ;
WHEREAS the new Member States and Greece shall apply until 31 December 1977 '•
customs duties and charges having equivalent effect different from those applicable under the Agreement of Association in respect of trade between the Community as
originally constituted and Greece ; whereas it is accordingly appropriate to adopt methods of co-operation to ensure the proper implementation of provisions governing the whole of the intra-Association trade s
Goods satisfying the necessary conditions for implementation of the provisions
of the Agreement, of Association relatingythe gradual abolition, between the Community
and Greece of customs duties, quantitative restrictions and all measures having equivalent effect shall benefit from these provisions in the Member States or in . Greece , upon submission of documentary evidence issued at the exporter 's request by the customs authdri+ies of Greece or of a Member State.
1. When the goods are transported direct from a Member State to Greece or from Greece to a Member State , the documentary evidence referred to in Article 1 shall be movement certificate A.G.I.
In other cases , the documentary evidence shall be movement certificate A.G.3 .
2. For the application of paragraph 1, the following shall be considered as transpor­ ted direct from a Member State to Greece or from Greece to a Member State :
(a) goods that axe transported without passing through territory other than that ' of the Community or of Greece ;
(b) goods transported through territory other than that of the Community or of Greece, or transhipped in such territory provided that they cross such terri­ tory or are transhipped under cover of a single transport document made out in the Community or in Greece.
When movement certificate A.G.I or A.G.3 relates to goods obtained in the Community under the conditions set out in Article 8 of the Agreement of Association it shall bear a statement to that effect . ■
Special provisions on movement AtOil
1. Movement certificate A.G.I shall be endorsed, by the customs authorities of the exporting State when goods to which it relates are exported. It shall "be made available to the exporter as soon as actual exportation has been effected or
In exceptional circumstances movement certificate A.G.I may also be endorsed after • exportation of the goods to which it relates, if it was not produced at the time
of exportation because of errors or involuntary omission. In this case , the certi­ ficate shall bear a special reference to the conditions in which it was endorsed.
2. Movement certificate A.G.I may be endorsedonly where it can serve as the documentary evidence required for the purpose of implementing the preferential
treatment provided for in the* Agreement of Association. Article 5
Movement certificate A.G.I must be submitted, within three months of the date of endorsement by the customs authorities of the exporting State, to the customs authori­ ties of the importing State where the goods are entered.
Special provisions on movement certificate A.G.3.
Movement certificate A.G.3 shall be issued by the customs authorities of the exporting State when the goods to which it relates are exported. It shall be made available to the exporter as soon as actual exportation has been effected or assured.
Under no circumstances may movement certificate A.G.3 be issued after the goods have been exported.
Movement certificate A.G.3 shall "be made out so as to allow identification
of the goods to which it relates when they are imported. The customs authorities of the exporting State shall also take any measures they consider necessary
to facilitate such identification and shall refer to these on the certificate
Movement certificate A.G.3 shall be submitted, within six months of the date of issue ,to the customs authorities of the - importing State . It shall only
be valid for the quantities of goods entering the importing State during that period .
Provisions common to movement certificate A.G.I and A.G.#
Movement certificates A.G.I and A.G.3 shall be made out on the appropriate form, specimens of which are annexed to this Decision, in one of the languages in which the Agreement of Association is drawn up and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law of the exporting State. When certificates are made out in Greek, they shall also be made out in one of the official langues of the Community. They shall be typed or handwritten in block letters in ink.
The customs authorities of the exporting. State may require a duplicate copy of movement certificates to be submitted to the customs export office at the same time as the original. •
Each certificate shall measure 210 x 297 mm. The paper used must be white sized x\rriting paper not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 64 grammes per square metre. It shall have a printed green guilloche pattern
background making any falsification by mechanical or chemical means apparent to the eye.
The Member States and Greece may reserve the right to print the certificates themselves or may have them printed by approved printers. In the latter case, each certificate shall inolude a reference to such approval. Baoh, oertifioate shall bear the name and address of the printer or a mark by which the printer . can be identified. It shall also bear a serial number by which it can be identified.
Movement certificates shall be submitted to customs authorities in the
importing State in accordance with the procedures laid down by that State. These authorities may require a translation of a certificate. They may also require
the import declaration to be accompanied by a statement from the importer to the; effect that the goods meet the conditions required for the implementation of
the provisions of the Agreement of Association. TITLE V
The following shall benefit from the provisions of the Agreement of Associa­ tion relating to the gradual abolition , between the Community and Greece , of customs duties, quantitative restrictions and all measures having equivalent effect , with out requiring the production of a movement certificate A.G.I or A.G.3 :
(a) once they have been declared as meeting the conditions required for the application of these provisions and where there is no doubt as to the accuracy of such declaration, dutiable objects accompanying travellers or forming part of their luggage , provided they are not objects intended for commercial purposes and their total value does not exceed 200 units of. account ;
(b) postal consignments (including postal packages.) transported direct from the exporting State to the importing State provided there is not indication on the packing or on the accompanying documents that the goods contained there­ in do not comply with the conditions set out in Artioles 7 or 8 of the Association Agreement . This indication shall consist of a yellow label
for which provision is mads under the Community transit system, affixed in all cases of this kind by the competent authorities of the exporting State.
In order "to ensure the proper application of the provisions of this Decision Dht) Masribsj? ansi Oresoa ghall assist oedft ijUffcugjik "their respestiver
customs administrations, in checking the authenticity and accuracy of the certificates .
Greece and the Community shall each take the steps necessary to implement this Decision.■
1. The specimens of movement certificates A.G.I and A.G.3 shall form an integral part of this Decision.
2. A.G.I and. A.G.3 movement certificates complying with the former specimens annexed to the Agreement of 26 September 1962 may continue to be used until existing stocks are exhausted.
1. Until 31 December 1977 » the customs authorities of the exporting State shall ensure that A.G.I and A.G.3 movement certificates issued by them indicate that the goods covered by the said certificates have acquired the status of products fulfilling the conditions of Articles 7 or 8 of the Agreement of Association either in the Community as originally constituted or in a new Member State .
2. During the period referred to in paragraph 2 , a movement certificate A.G.I
or A.G.3 relating to goods obtained in Greece under the conditions set out
in Article 8 of the Agreement shall bear a statement to that effect completed
by the notation of the percentage taken into consideration for the determina­ tion of the rate of the levy.
Goods fulfilling the conditions of Articld 7 of the Association Agreement which have been exported from a new Member State or from Greece after the Additional Protocol has been signed and which on the date of entry into force
of the Interim Agreement are either in transit , or held in Greece or a Member State in a customs warehouse , in temporary storage or in a free - zone , may benefit from the provisions of the Interim Agreement subject to production, within four months of that date,- to the customs authorities of the importing State of an A.G.I certificate endorsed retrospectively by the customs authorities of the . exporting State , together with documentary evidence of through transit *
1. This Decision shall apply as^from 1 July 1975? •
2. Movement certificates issued in accordance with the Agreement of 26 September 1962 before the date referred to in paragraph 1 but submitted to the customs
authorities of the importing State after this date shall be considered as issued in accordance with this Decision.
Done at Brussels, For the Council of Association The President
Number and kind
(Whl,fcu.m,etc.,)'
(Surname and forename or name of firm and full address of exporter)
exporter ofyle pbOds9 described below ! .
/>-// Γ declare that these goods situated InV /.>'
- m&et the conditions required for the i&sue of this certificate (3). ^ countryof' * A
(Placé and date of signature)
,.• (Signature of exporter) (Optional information)
(1 ) ror goods in bulk, indicate the name of the ship or the number of the railway waggon or road vehicle. \
(2) Among the remarks to bo entered in this space. Insert where appropriate "Compensatory Levy » Greece", as provided for under note I (1) (c) snd (d) overjeaf.
/tyi*s*ri the
 REQUEST FOR VERIFICATION Verification of the authenticity and accuracy of this certi­
! Verification carried out shows that this certificate (M
(Place and date of signature)
(Signature of customs officer)
prescribed for them;
Th'e movement certificate A. • 1 mav be used only if the goods to which if relates are transported direct from the exporting State to the importing State.
The following shall be considered as transported direct from the exporting State to the importing State :
(a)' goods transported without passing through territories other - than those of the Community or<*rtttfc;
(b) goods transported through territories o'her than those of the Community or 6iYG£te. or with transhipment in such territories
provided that carriage through such territories or transhipment is covered by a single transport document ntade out in the Community or Gcrzect •
Note: Before requesting endorsement of movement certificate A. 61,. 1 by the customs authorities of the exporting State, the exporter must sa'isfy himself that the goods will in fact be transported' direct to the importing State. Goods not transport­ ed direct are eligible for preferential treatment only if a move­ ment certificate A. Ck *. 3 is produced .
1. The movement certificate A. G±. 1 must be completed in one of the languages in which the Agreement is drawn up and shall comply with the internal laws of the exporting State. Where the
•/ certificate is completed in 0%<4tU t it may rilso be completed in one of the official languages of the Community.
2. The movement certificate A. G,. t must be typed or handwritten; if *he latter it must be completed in ink in block letters. It must not contain any erasure or superimposed correction. Any alteration must be made by deleting the incorrect particulars and adding any necessary corrections. Any such alteration must be initialled by the person who completed the certificate and endorsed by the; customs authorities.
3. Each item listed in the movement certificate A. 6i. 1 must be
preceded by a seri.il number. A horizontal line must be drawn immediately after the la.st entry. Unused space must be struck through so as to make any later addition impossible.
4. Goods must be described in accordance with commercial usage and in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified.
J. The exporter or the carrier may complete the part of the certificate reserved for the declaration by the exporter by a reference to the transport document. It is also recommended that the exporter or the carrier show on the transport document covering the despatch of the goods the serial number of the movement certificate λ.α.ι. ..
When properly used, the movement certificate A. (Z. 1 enables the
goods described therein to benefit in the importing State from the.
progressive elimination of customs duties, quantitative restrictions and all other measures having equivalent efrcct . However , when the movement certificate bears the statement "Compensatory Levy–
.« goods described therein shall not be eligible for this preferential
treatment in the Member States of the E.E.C.
The customs authorities of the importing State may. If they consider it 'o be necessary, require any other documentary evidence and in particular transport documents tinder cover of which the goods were dispatched.
The movement certificate A. G* . 1 must be produced at the customs I within a period of . months from the date of endorsement,-.'' office of the importing Member Sta*e where the goods ate presented, I ' •
wan issued by the Customs Office indicated and that the information contained therein is accurate. .
does not meet the requirements as to authenticity and accuracy (see remarks appended).
(Place and date of signature)
(Signature of customs officer) (') Inscir X in the Appropriate box.
1. A movement certificate A. 6.1 may be endorsed only for goods which , in the exporting State , fall within one of the following categories :
(a) goods produced in the exporting State, including those obtained or produced wholly or partly from products on which the ap-
, plicablc customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have been levied and which have not benefited from a total or par­ tial drawback of sudi duties or charges;
(b) coods in free circulation in the exporting State, (goods coming' ( from a third country, in respect of which import formalities have been complied with and any customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have been levied, and which have not benefited from a total or partial drawback of such duties or
(c) goods obtained or produced within the exporting State, and in ' the manufacture of which have been used products on which the applicable customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have not been levied or which have benefited from a total or partial drawback of such duties or charges, subject to the collection, where appropriate, of the compensatory levy
Notes The statement "Compensatory - Levy– £r*«ce?' must appear on all movement certificates A. <x . 1 for goods obtain­
ed or produced in the Community from products coming from a third country on which the applicable customs duties, and charges having equivalent effect have not been levied in either the Community or
(d) goods originally imported from a State party to the Agreement and which on exportation fall within one of the categories (a), (b) or (c) above.
Note: In the case of goods originally Imported into the expor- i'„ ting State under the cover of a movement certificate bearing the 'statement "Compensatory Levy– <*r«««Mt the movement ccrtifi- . ca*e or certificates A. <3.. 1 issued in lieu of the latter must
also bear the statement "Compensatory Lcvy–»&r«tc«",
2. C«ri*fv» products must also comply with the conditions laid down *cfc rfjarc^f . •
3. Movement certificates A. 1 may not be endorsed for goods » originally imported from a third country under a preferential customs system because of their country of origin or place of
of pi',.„'.30S (co!. 3) J [ce:'. 3'
j r.^r.vo of i.".„
^ o: tr.o nurv, jc»" of u">- i'ui> .v«y 'AC^^o.i rc^d ve've-w.
 Â 000000 RESULT OF CUSTOMS EXAMINATION AND INDICATION OF MEANS OF IDENTIFICATION(')
(1) Inthisspacethecustomsauthoritiesoftheplaceofexportationshouldgivetheresultsoftheirexaminationwithanydetailswhichmayfacilitate identification of the goods. They must also indicate any special identification measures such as sealing, stamping, etc., which they have taken. Where supporting items of the type referred to in the second paragraph of Note 1 1 1 (5) overleaf (photographs, plans, samples of woven-fabric, etc.) are attached, the customs office must stamp them in such a way that a part of the official 6tamp is Imprinted on the actual certificate AG3.
Spaces not used must be struck through In order to prevent later additions....,,*' :1 f.: asy Y'l
(Signature of custom* officer)
Verification of the authenticity and accuracy of this ccrti- ficate it requested.
RESULT OF VERIFICATION Verification carried out shows that this certificate (')
(Place and date of signature)
(Signature of customs officer)
was issued by the Customs Office indicated and that the information contained therein is accurate. ,
does not meet the requirements as to authenticity and accuracy (see remarks appended).
(Place and date of signature)
(Signature of customs officer) (M Insert X in the appropriate box.
A movement certificate A. d. 3 may endorsed only for goods which, in the exporting State, fall within one of the following categories :
(a) goods produced in the exporting State, including those obtained
or produced wholly or partly from products on which the ap­
plicable customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have been levied and which have not benefited from a total or par­ tial drawback of such du'ics or charges;
(b) goods in free circulation in the exporting S'ate, (goods coming from a third country, in respect of which import formalities have been complied with and any customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have been levied, and which have not benefited from a total or partial drawback of such duties or charges);
(c) goods obtained or produced within the exporting State, and in the manufacture of which have been used products on which the applicable customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have not been levied or which have benefited from a total or partial drawback of such duties or charges* subject to the collection, where appropriate, of the compensatory levy prescribed for them;
1. The movement certificate A. 0+ • 3 must be completed in one of the languages in which the Agreement is drawn up and shall comply wirh the internal laws of the exporting State. Where the certificate is completed in (krtiU, it may also be completed in one of the official languages of the Community*
2* The movement certificate A. (L. 3 must be typed or handwritten; if the latter it must be completed in ink in block letters. It must not contain any erasure or superimposed correction. Any alteration must be made by deleting the incorrect particulars and adding any necessary corrections. Any such alteration must be Initialled by the person who completed the certificate and endorsed by the customs authorities.
3. The "declaration by the exporter" on the second page of the movement certificate A. 6*. . 3 must be completed in full. In
particular, the place of loading, the date of 'dispatch and the
country of destination at the time of export must be stated.
• 4. Each item listed in the movement certificate A. G - 3 must be
preceded by a serial number. A horizontal line must be drawn '
A movement certificate A. G. 3 enables the goods described therein to benefit from the progressive elimination of customs duties,
quantitative restrictions and all other measures having equivalent effect, where there is no doubt that the goods actually imported are those described in that movement certificate A. Ot • 3. However when the movement certificate A. (x . 3 bears the statement "Compensatory Levy– goods described therein shall not
be eligible for this preferential treatment in the Member States of the E.E.C. The customs authorities of the importing State may : require submission of any supporting evidence if they consider there '
is doubt as to the identity of the goods and may exclude the poods . from the progressive elimination of customs duties, quantitative restrictions and all measures having equivalent effect if satisfactory.' evidence cannot be produced.
. 3 may be used in all cases where
(b) goods transported through territories other th'an those of the Community or GLrvtct or with transhipment in such territories . provided that carriage through such territories or transhipment is covered by a single transport document made out in thp
a movement certificate A. Gv . 1 cannot be used owing to the fact' that the goods are not transported direct from the exporting State to the importing State:
The following shall be considered as transported direct from the exporting State to the importing State:
\ ' (a) goods transported without passinr through territories other than those of the Community or
The movement certificate A. G\ . 3 must be submitted to the customs from the date of issue. It shall be valid only for the quantities of authorities of the importing State within i period of six months goods p/j$ented in that State during those six months.
Note: The statement "Compensatory Levy–
appear on all movement certificates A. for goods obtain* cd or produced in the Community from products coming from
• ' a third country, on which the applicable customs duties and charges having equivalent effect have not been levied in either • the Community or Uret**.
(d) goods originally imported from a State partv to the Agreement and which on exportation fall within one of the categories (a), . (b) or (c) above.
Note: In the case of goods originally imporred into the expor­
ting State under the cover of a movement certificate bearing the 'statement "Compensatory Levy– the movement certifi­ cate or certificates A. <*. 3 issued in lieu of the latter must
also bear the statement "Compensatory Levy– &«*£*"•
products must also comply with the conditions laid down
Movement certificates A. 6.*^ may not be endorsed for goods^
(a) which, in accordance with the provisions applicable to them, must be transported direct from the exporting State to the . importing State;
(b) which were originally imported from a third country under ' a preferential customs system because of their country of origin or place of consignment.
In particular, the Movement certificate A. (*v. 3 may be used for ! 1
goods exported from a State party to the Agreement to a country*■ i not party to the Agreement, from which they are liable to be re- /. exported' subsequently to a State party to the Agreement. i j:'
immediately after the . last entry . Unused space must
through s6 as to make any later addition impossible.
5. Goods must be described in accordance with commercial usage
and great detail so as to ensure that they can be identified easily. ' The description of the goods must include the number of tnc
tariff heading applicable to each item.
The exporter must include with the movement certificate A. As. 3'
all documents such as plans, drawings, photographs or commercial
prospectuses, etc., which may help identification. If they consider
it necessary, the customs authorities of the exporting country -sbafl annex these documents to the movement certificate A. 6L« 3.
on the application of Article 8 of the Agreement of Association in respect of trade between the new Mem­
ber States and Greece
Having regard to the Agreement setting up an Association between the European Economic Community and Greece and in particular Article 8(1) and Protocol No. 3
annexed to the Agreement ;
WHEREAS an Additional Protocol was signed on /_ J and an Interim Agreement to anticipate certain provisions of the Additional Protocol on trade has come into
force /l July 19757.
WHEREAS Article 8 of the Agreement of Association lays down for each period during which customs duties are being eliminated the percentage to be used to determine
the rate of compensatory levy to be paid in the exporting State in respect of goods obtained in Member States of the Community or in Greece in the manufacture of
which have been incorporated products from third countries which were neither in free circulation in the Member States nor in Greece j ,
WHEREAS in anticipation of the entry into force of the Additional Protocol the Interim Agreement provides that the provisions in question shall apply also to trade between the new Member States and Greece ;
WHEREAS, the new Member States and. Greece shall apply until 30 Dec. 1977 inclusive, by virtue of provisions of the Interim Agreement and the Additional Protocol customs duties and charges having equivalent effect different from those appli­
cable under the Agreement of Association between the Community as originally constituted and Greece ; whereas accordingly special provisions need to be adopted
1 as regards the special percentage of the customs duties of the
Common Customs Tariff to be used, for the calculation of the compensatory levy referred to in Article 8 of the Agreement of Association in respect of trade between the new Member States and Greece :
WHEREAS the Common Customs Tariff does not apply to ECSC goo.ds : HAS DB0IEED s
Complementary to the provisions taken pursuant to Article 8 of the Agreement of Association in respect of trade between the original Community and Greece the percentages of the duties to he taken into consideration for determination of
the rate of the compensatory levy to apply in trade between the new Member States and Greece during the period referred to in Article 2 of the Interim Agreement shall be laid down by this Decision. -
For goods manufacturedin new Member States of the Community, the percentage shall be as follows : •
( a) Sofa for the period as from ^Ehe date of entry into force of the Interim Agreement_7to 31 December 1975 inclusive,
8Ofo for the period as from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1977 inclusive -
for goods referred to be in Article 14 of the Agreement of Association ;
(b) 21,6$ as from the^date of entry into force of the Interim Agreement/' for goods referred to in Article 15 of the Agreement#
For goods manufactured m Greece the percentage shall be as follows :
- 60% for the period as from /the^ date of entry into force of the Interim Agreement/to 31 December 1975 inclusive,
- QCifo for the period as from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1977 inclusive.
As regards goods manufactured from ECSC - products, the percentages referred to in Articles 2 and 3 shall apply to the rates of the ECSC unified tariff
in force in the Community as originally constituted in respect of European Coal and Steel Community products used in manufacture.
This Decision shall apply as from. . . . *.^date of the entry into force of the Interim Agreement^?
Done at Brussels , Por the Council The President
Regulation of the Council of 1975
on the implementation of provisions
adopted under the Association between the European
Economic Community and Greece in respect of
the movement of goods
under the extension of the Association to the new Member States
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 113 thereof;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission ;
Whereas an Additional Protocol to extend the Association between the European Economic Community as originally constituted and Greece to the new Member States was signed on [ 5 whereas an Interim Agreement to anticipate certain provisions of the Additional Protocol has come into force /l July 19757*
Whereas by virtue of Article 12 of the said Interim Agreement the Council of Association has adopted Decision No / 75 » on the methods of administrative' co-operation for implementation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Agreement of Associa­ tion for the whole of the intra-Association trade ; whereas the Council of Association has at the same time "by Decision No /75 adopted special provisions for a period ending 30 June 1977 in respect of the percentage of the duties of the Common Customs Tariff to be used to determine the rate of the compensatory levy referred to in Article 8 of the Council of Association for trade between the new Member States and Greece ;
Whereas measures must be taken for the implementation of the Decisions referred to above and to this end to amend Regulation (EEC) 610/72^ in respect of the •' compensatory levy to be collected in trade between the new Member States and Greece.
Decision Ho / 75 of the Council of Association , annexed to this regu­ lation shall apply as regards methods of administrative co-operation for imple­
mentation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Agreement of Association.
Regulation (EEC) 610/72 is amended as follows :
(a) The second sub-paragraph of Article 2 is replaced as follows :
"As regards goods manufactured from European Coal and Steel Community products the percentage shall apply to the rates of the unified tariff
in force in the Community as originally constituted in respect of European Coal and Steel Community products used in manufacture."
(b) Insert the following Article :
In derogation from the provisions of Articles 5 and. 5A the percentage of duties to be used in respect of goods obtained or produced in new Member States shall be as follows :
(a) 60fo for the period from /1 July 197^7'to 31 December 1975 inclusive
8ofo for the period from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1977 inclusive ι1
for goods referred to m Article 14 of the Agreement of Association
(b) 21,6# as from/1 July 197$ . .
for goods referred to in Article 15 of the said Agreement."
(1) Regulation (EEC) No 610/72 of the Council of 23 march 19Y2 on the
application of provisions adopted within the Association established between the European Economic Community and Greece on the movement of goods in the manufacture of which are used third country products and are not in free circulation either in the Community or Greece (O.J. Special Edition
( Second Series ) I External Relations ( l ), p«73 ) as last amended by Regu­ lation (EEC) 2911/74, 7 November 1974 (O.J. No L 313. 25 November 1974» p.52)
This Regulation enters into force on £ 1 July 1975_y.
This Regulation shall "be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels For the Council The President
l mois»4compterdeladatedetonvisai*aubureaudedouane
oder anderc MaRe
Printed by WILHELM KttHLER VERLAG, 495 MINDEN 1. Postfach 1130. Briickenkopf 2a - Federal Republic of Germany
Draft Decision of the
on methods of administrative co-operation for
implementation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Agreement establishing an Association "between the EEC and Greece
on the application of Article 8 of the Agreement of Association in respect of trade between the . kew Member States and Greece
Proposal for a REGULATION (EEC) CF THE COUNCIL
on the implementation of provisions adopted under the Association between the European Economic Community and Greece in respect of the movement of goods under the extension of the Association to the new Member States
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
According to the provisions of the Interim Agreement and of the Additional Protocol , the new Member States and Greece shall apply * until 31 December 1977 » different customs duties and charges having equivalent effect from those appli­ cable under the Agreement of Association in trade between the Community as originally constituted and Greece.
In order to ensure the proper implementation of provisions governing intra-Asso- ciation trade the Council of Association should adopt
- the.- methods of administrative co-operation for implementation of Articles 7 ar. i 8 of the Athens Agreement for intra-Association trade ;
- s: cic-i -rovi^.ons on the percentage of C.C.T. duties to be used to determine ti .. ra.e of compensatory levy referred to in Article 8 of the Agreement oi Association in respect of trade between the new Member States and Greece.
The -;wo draft Decisions (Annexes I + II), agreed by the Customs Co-operation Com^ttee EEC-Greece at the 6th meeting (Brussels 17-18 March 1975) are annexed accordingly .
Phe Council of the European Economic Communities is invited, by virtue of Article 113 of the EEC Treaty, to adopt the necessary provisions to give effect to the aforesaid Community Decisions.
The regulation proposed for this purpose is at Annex III.
 Draft Décision of the
on methods of administrative co-operation for implementation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Agreement establishing an Association between
the EEC and Greece
Having regard to the Agreement establishing an Association between the European
Economic Community and Greece ; and particularly article 9» having regard to the Interim Agreement in force since (_'1 July 1975/and particularly article 12
WHEREAS an Additional- Protocol was signed on ./and an Interim Agreement
anticipate to certain provisions of the Additional Protocol on trade was signed /on the same date/5
WHEREAS a Convention, concluded pursuant to Article 9 of the Agreement of Association between the governments of Member States of .the Community as originally constituted and the Community and the Greek government and signed on 26 September 1962 in Brussels laid down the methods of administrative co-operation for the implementation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Agreement of Association s
WHI^IEAS Article 4 of the Additional Protocolyprovides for an amendment to. Article 9
of ihe ;.0vooniont of Association so that the methods of administrative co-operation for the implementation of Articles 7 and 8 of the said Agreement may be determined by ,he Council of Association whereas pending the entry into foroe of the said Protocol and in anticipation of the amendment to be made , Article 12 of the Interim Agreement delegates this matter to the Council of Association j
WHEREAS the new Member States and Greece shall apply until 31 December 1977 customs duties and charges having equivalent effect different from those applicable under the Agreement of Association in respect of trade between the Community as originally constituted and Greece ; whereas it is accordingly appropriate to
adc )t methods of co-operation to ensure the proper implementation of provisions
go- frning the whole of the intra-Association trade : \
Goods satisfying the necessary conditions for implementation of the provisions of tl.e Agreement of Association relating°the gradual abolition, between the Community and Greece of customs duties, (Quantitative restrictions and all measures having equivalent effect shall benefit from these provisions in the Member States or in . Greece , upon submission of documentary evidence issued at the exporter 's request
by xhe customs authorities of Greece or of a Member State.
1. When the goods are transported direct from a Member State to Greece or from Greece to a Member State , the documentary evidence referred to in Artiole 1 shall be movement certificate A.G.I.
In other cases, the documentary evidence shall be movement
2. For the application of paragraph 1, the following shall be ted direct from a Member State to Greece or from Greece to
considered as transpor­ a Member State s
(a) goods that are transported without passing through territory other than that o_" the Community or of Greece ;
(b) goods transported through territory other than that of the Community or of Greece , or transhipped in such territory provided that they cross such terri­ tory or are transhipped under cover of a single transport document made out" in the Community or in Greece.
When movement certificate A.G.I or A.G.3 relates to goods obtained in the Community under the conditions set out in Article 8 of the Agreement of Association it shall bear a statement to that effect.
Special provisions on movement certificate A.G.I
1. Movement certificate A.G.I shall be endorsed, "by the customs authorities of the exporting State when goods to which it relates are exported. It shall "be made
available to the exporter as soon as actual exportation has been effected or ensured.
In exceptional circumstances movement certificate A.G.I may also be endorsed sifter exportation of the goods to which it relates, if it was not produced at the time of exportation because of errors or involuntary omission. In this case, the certi­ ficate shall bear a special reference to the conditions in which it was endorsed.
2. Movement certificate A.G.I may be endorsedonly where it can serve as the . documentary evidence required for the purpose of implementing the preferential
treatment provided for in the Agreement of Association. Article 5
Lovement certificate A.G.I must be submitted, within three months of the date of ' endorsement by the customs authorities of the exporting State , to the customs authori­ ties of the importing State where the goods are entered.
Special provisions on movement certificate A.G.3*
movement certificate A.G.3 shall be issued by the customs authorities of the exporting State when the goods to which it relates are exported. It shall be made available to the exporter as soon as actual exportation has been effected or assured.
Under no circumstances may movement certificate A.G.3 be issued after the goods have been expor-ed.
Movement certificate A.G.3 shall "be made out so as to allow identification
of the goods to which it relates when they are imported. The customs authorities of the exporting State shall also take any measures they consider necessary
to facilitate such identification and shall refer to these on the certificate itself.
liove^er.-; certificate A.G.3 shall be submitted, within six months of the date of issue ,to the customs authorities of the importing State,. It shall only
be vi.lii for the quantities of goods entering the importing State during that P6J*XCU.«
: Provisions- comaon to movemsnt . " ,
Movement certificates A.G.l and A.G.3 shall be made out on the appropriate forr:., specimens of which axe annexed to this Decision, in one of the languages in *.•;!*.icii the Agreement cf Association is drawn up and in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law qf the exporting State. VJherf certificates are made out in Greek, they shall also be made out in one of the official langues of • „ Co..^unity* T'hcy shall be typed or handwritten in' block letters in ink.
T-*e customs authorities of the exporting State may require a, duplicate copy
of movement certificates to "be submitted to the customs export office at the i
same tiue as the original.. • ' '• . ;
Uiich certificate shall measure 210 x 297 mm. The paper used must be white sized writing paper not containing mechanical pulp and weighing not less than 64 graranes per square metre. It shall have a printed green guilloohe pattern background making any falsification by mechanical or chemical means apparent to the eye.
The Member States and Greece may reserve the right to print the certificates themselves or may have them printed by approved printers. In the latter oase, each certificate shall include a reference to such approval. Each certificate
shall bear the name and address of the printer or a mark by which the printer can be identified. It shall also bear a serial number by which it can be identified.
Movement certificates shall be submitted to customs authorities m the importing State in accordance with the procedures laid down by that State. These
authorities may require a translation of a certificate. They may also require the import declaration to be accompanied by a statement from the importer to the effect that the goods meet the conditions required for the implementation of
the provisions of the Agreement of Association. ■
The following shall benefit from the provisions of the Agreement of Associa­ tion relating to the gradual abolition , between the Community and Greece , of customs duties, quantitative restrictions and all measures having equivalent effect , without requiring the production of a movement certificate A.G.I or A.G.3 :
once they have been declared as meeting the conditions required for the application of these provisions and where there is no doubt as to the accuracy of such declaration, dutiable objects accompanying travellers or forming part of their luggage , provided they are not objects intended for commercial purposes and their total value does not exceed 200 units of account ;
postal consignments (including postal packages} transported direct from the exporting State to the importing State provided there is not indication on the packing or on the accompanying documents that the goods contained there­ in do not comply with the conditions set out in Articles 7 or 8 of the Association Agreement . This indication shall consist of a yellow label
for which provision is made under the Community transit system, affixed in all cases of this kind by the competent authorities of the exporting State.
In order to ensure the proper application of the provisions of this Decision, the Member States and. Greece shall assist each other, through their respective customs administrations, in checking the authenticity and accuracy of the certificates .
Greece and the Community shall each take the steps necessary to implement this Decision.
1. The specimens of movement certificates A.G.I and. A.G.3 shall form an integral part of this Decision.
2. A.G.I and A.G.3 movement certificates complying with the former specimens
annexed to the Agreement of 26 September 1962 may continue to be used until
existing stocks are exhausted. ι
1. Until 31 December 1977> the customs authorities of the exporting State shall ensure that A.G.I and A.G.3 movement certificates issued by them indicate that the goods covered by the said certificates have acquired the status of
. products fulfilling the conditions of Articles 7 or 8 of the Agreement of Association either in the Community as originally constituted or in a new Member State.
2. During the period referred to in paragraph 2 , a movement certificate A.G.I
or A.G.3 relating to goods obtained in Greece under the conditions set out
in Article 8 of the Agreement shall bear a statement to that effect completed
by the notation of the percentage taken into consideration for the determina­ tion of the rate of the levy.
Goods fulfilling the conditions of Article 7 of the Association Agreement which have been exported from a new Member State or from Greece after the Additional Protocol has "been signed and which on the date of entry into force • of the Interim Agreement are either in transit , or held in Greece or a Member State in a customs warehouse , in temporary storage or in a free zone , may "benefit from the provisions of the Interim Agreement subject to production, within four months of that date, to the customs authorities of the importing State of an A.G.I certificate endorsed retrospectively by the customs authorities of the exporting State, together with documentary evidence of through transit.
1. This Decision shall apply as^/from 1 July 197^7
2. Movement certificates issued in accordance with the Agreement of 26 September 1962 before the date referred to in paragraph 1 but submitted to the customs authorities of the importing State after this date shall be considered as issued in accordance with this Decision. , ,
Done at Brussels, For the Council of Association The President
I, the undersigned, .
Marks and numbsrs
. v/u.Cw w.'.d daia of 6ignaturo)
•«* Gross weight /{'fy ,|l|t(kg) or other.;,)) measure
Total nurnL^/ of packu^cs (col. 3),
and tota! v. Remarks. .
..JSO ccwJj Situated in
- ated
.exporter ofthe gbpds described beloW! ■'
(SiSf'aîura of exporter) (.Uptionai information)
(Surname and forename or name of firm and full address of exporter)
^ ontered in this spaco, insert where appropriate "Compensatory Levy • Greece"* at provided for under hote X (1 ) (c)
(1) For £Cw~^ ... bulk, ...w.c«io iha name of the ship or the number of the railway waggon or road vehicle.
 REQUEST FOR VERIFICATION „ Verification of the authenticity and accuracy of this certi­
: Verification carried out shows that this certificate (')
ficate it requested.
(Place and date of signature)
(Signature of customs officer)
was issued by the Customs Office indicated and that the information contained therein is accurate. . .
does not meet the requirements as to authenticity and accuracy (see remarks appended).
(Place and date of signature)
which, in the exporting State, fall within one of the following categories:
(a) goods produced in the exporinn State, including those obtained
or produced wholly or partly from products on which the ap­
plicable customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have been levied and which have not benefited from a total or par­
tial drawback of such duties or charges;
(b) goods in free circulation in the exporting State, (goods coming' from a third country, in respect of which import formalities have been complied with and any customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have been levied, and which have not benefited from a total or partial drawback of such duties or charges);
(c) goods obtained or produced within the exporting State, and trt the manufacture of which have been used products on which
the applicable customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have not been levied or which have benchtcd from a
. total or partial drawback of such duties or charges, subject to the collection, where appropriate, of the compensatory levy prescribed /or them;
(d) goods originally imported from a State party to the Agreement and which on exportation fall within one of the categories (a)» (b) or (c) above.
Note: In the case of goods originally imported into the expor­
ting State under the cover of a movement certificate bearing the 'statement "Compensatory Levy– the movement certifi* ca'e or certificates A. Qx - 1 issued in lieu of the latter must
also bear the statement "Compensatory Levy–
Cfrfc*;* products must also comply with the , conditions laid down <.»-» rc<j*tifc, ' '■
Th'e movement certificate A. • 1 may be used only if the goods to which it relates are transported direct from the exporting State to the importing State.
The following shall be considered as transported direct from the exposing State to the importing State:
(a)' goods transported without passing through territories other ■ than those of the Community or&rtttfe,
(b) goods transported through territories o'her th'an those of the Community or 6i>T>£ce- or with transhipment in such territories
provided that carriage through such territories or transhipment is covered by a single transport document made out in the Community or <*.rtecc •
Note: Dcfore requesting endorsement of movement certificate A. Oi.. 1 by the customs authorities of the exporting State, the exporter must satisfy himself that the goods will in fact be transported direct to the importing State. Goods not transport* cd direct are eligible for preferential treatment only if a move* nicnt certificate A. 3 is produced.
2* The movement certificate A. G. . 1 must be typed or handwritten;
if 'he latter it must be completed in ink in block letters. It must
not contain any erasure or superimposed correction. Any alteration
must be made by_ deleting the incorrect particulars and adding any
necessary corrections. Any such alteration must be initialled by
the ,>c.-.on who completed the certificate and endorsed by the, custo .-... authorities .
When properly used, the movement certificate A. (L . 1 enables the goods described therein to benefit in (he importing State from the. progressive elimination of customs duties, Quantitative restrictions and all other measures having equivalent effect . However, when the movement certificate bears the statement "Compensatory Levy–
, , goods described therein shall not be eligible for this preferential
treatment in the Member States of the E.E.C; .
The customs authorities of the importing State may, If they consider it to be necessary, require any other aocumentary evidence and in
particular transport documents under cover of whidi the goods were dispatched. ^ -
1» The movement certificate A. Gv. 1 must be completed in one of the languages in which the Agreement is drawn up and shatl comply with the internal laws of the exporting State. Where the .
/. certificate is completed in ctf , it may also be completed in one of the official languages of the Community.
3* Each item listed in the movement certificate A. Ct. 1 must be
preceded by a serial number. A horizontal line must be drawn immediately after the last entry. Unused space must be struck t through so as to make any later addition impossible.
4. Goods must be described in accordance with commercial usage and in sufficient detail to enable them to be identified.
5. The exporter or the carrier may complete the part of the certificate reserved for the declaration by the exporter by a reference to the transport document. It is also recommended that the exporter or the carrier show on the transport document covering the despatch of the goods the serial number of the movement certificate ' A. 1 . .
The movc.nent certificate A. G- ■ 1 must be produced at the customs | within a period of monthl from the date of endorsement, office of .ne importing Member Sta*e where the goods are presented, I ' * .-r–r *
(Signature of customs officer) f1) Insert X in the appropriate box.
certificate A. <% ■. 1 may be endorsed only for goods
Note : The statement " Compensatory * Levy– must appear on all movement certificates A. <x. 1 for goods obtain­
ed or produced in the Community from products coming from 1 a third country on which the applicable customs duties and charges having equivalent effect have not been levied in cither the Community or
3. Movement certificates A.' GL* 1 may not be endorsed for goods originally impor'cd from a third country under • preferential customs system because of their country of origin or place of consignment.
I, the undersigned,.
or other ' " measure •
Detailed description or' goods
exporter o* the goods described below:' | Net weiûht
^nd tora! quantises (cel. 6) Remarks (2) •
Declare that those goods situated in
meet the conoitions required for the issuo of this coriificjio .'3>
Place of loadinr .
Dispatched or,...
Country of destination of goods ci tho time of exportation ,
(1 ) For gooes in uulk . noiCele thu n<jr:»c of r. he ?- hio or the n.i :- iOor of the rrrlway wac^cn or read
(2) Anong the remarks to to entered n t>T!> space, insert where suprcoriato "Coriperisatory Letry - Greece", as provided for under no:e III ) (v) onrt /ri \ nn lac! rvapp rjf this rsr fificpfo. ,
. . (Place and date o! *igr>otnre)
Customs office
(1) Inthisspacethecusiomsauthoritiesoftheplaceofexportationshouldgivetheresuitsoftheirexaminationwithanydetailswhichmayfacilitate identification of the goods. They must also indicate any special identification measures such as sealing, stamping, etc., which they have taken. Where supporting items of the type referred to in the second paragraph of Note 1 1 1 (5) overleaf (photographs, plans, samples of woven-fabric, etc.) s.'e attached, the customs office must stamp therrt in such a way that a part of the official stamp Is imprinted on the actual certificate AG3.
Spaces not used must be struck through in order to prevent later additions. ,, i-i
(Signature of customs officer)
Verification of the authenticity »nd Accuracy of thi» certi­ ficate is requested.
RESULT OF VERIFICATION Verification carried out shows that this certificate (')
(Place and date of signature)
(Signature of customs officer)
□ doesnotmeettherequirementsastoauthenticity and accuracy (see remarks appended).
(Place and date of signature)
(Signature of customs officer) (*) Insert X in rhe appropriât* box.
1. A movement certificate A. & . 3 may be endorsed only for goods which , in the exporting Stare * fail within one of the following categories :
(a) goods produced in the exporting State, including those obtained or produced wholly or partly from products on which the ap­ plicable customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have been levied and which have not benefited from a toral or par­ tial drawback of such du'ics or charges;
(b) goods in free circulation in the exporting Sfate, (goods coming from a third country, in respect of which import formalities have been complied with and any customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have been levied, and which have not benefited from a total or partial drawback of such duties or charges );
(c) goods obtained or produced within the exporting State, and in tne manufacture of which have been used products on which the applicable customs duties or charges having equivalent effect have not been levied or which have benefited from a total or partial drawback of such duties or charges, subject to the collection, where appropriate, of the compensatory levy prescribed for them:
Note: The statement "Compensatory Levy–
appear on all movement certificates A. for goods obtain- 1
ed or produced in the Community from products coming from a third country on which the applicable customs duties a and charges having equivalent effect have not been levied in either the Community or
!• The movement certificate A. . 3 must be completed in one of the languages in which the Agreement is drawn up and shall comply-wirh the internal laws of the exporting State. Where the certificate is completed in (kctii<, it may also be completed in one of the official languages of the Community.
• particular, the place of loading, the date of 'dispatch and the, country of destination at the time of export must be stated. 1
• 4. Each item listed in the movement certificate A. G»- 3 must be : )?;■ preceded by a serial number. A horizontal line must be drawn immediately after the last entry. Unused space must be struck J' through s6 as to make any later addition impossible.
5» Goods must be described in accordance with commercial usage .>•!' and great detail so as to ensure that they can be identified easily, v;':
» The description of the goods must include the number of tne
tariff heading applicable to each item. •
The exporter must include with the movement certificate A. GK. 3'
2. The move'mcnt certificate A. 6L . 3 must be typed or handwritten;
A movement certificate A. 4L . 3 may be used in all cases where a movement certificate A. I cannot be used owing to the fact *
that the goods are not transported direct from the exporting State to the importing State:
The following shall be considered as transported direct from the exporting State to the importing State:
(a) goods transported without passinr through territories other than those of the Community or OkTticc:
(b) goods transported through territories other than those of the Community orOLnrfct or with transhipment in such territories -
if the latter it must be completed in ink in block letters. It must
not contain any erasure or superimposed correction. Any alteration
must be made by deleting the incorrect particulars and adding any
necessary corrections. Any such alteration must be initialled by
the person who completed the certificate and endorsed by the customs authorities. .
3. The "declaration by the exporter" on the second page of the mover..ent certificate A. (x . 3 must be completed in full. In
all documents such as plans, drawings, photographs or commercial yv
A movement certificate A. G - 3 enables the goods described therein to benefit from the progressive elimination of customs duties , quantitative restrictions and all other measures having equivalent effect, where there is no doubt that the goods actually imported are . those described in that movement certificate A. 6 . 3. However when the movement certificate A. (x • 3 bears the statement
Compensatory Levy-&n*c? goods described therein shall not
I^LSSSTS' *• <h - 3 musl be. ,ubmi.ttc<! » A* ; I ;• from the date of issue. It ihatt be valid bnly for the duantitiei of authorities of the importing State within a period of itx month. | good, presented in that State during those aix months.
was issued by the Customs Office indicated and that the information contained therein is accurate.
provided that carriage through such territories or transhipment >" is covered by a single transport document made out in thp Community or&r*et<« * t ;
(d) goods originally imported from a State party to the Agreement and which on exportation fail within one of the categories (a), (b) or (c) above.
Note: In the case of goods originally imported into the expor*
ting State under the cover of a movement certificate bearing the 'statement "Compensatory Levy– the movement certify ca*e or certificates A. jt issued in lieu of the latter must
also bear the statement "Compensatory Levy–bnac*".
C4*t«.iVt products must also comply with the conditions laid down vn KCJtftck tfytro+t*
Movement certificates A. may not be endorsed for goods
(a) which, in accordance with the provisions applicable to them, J must be transported direct from the exporting State to the - importing State;
(b) which were originally imported from a third country under'
a preferential customs system because of their country of origin or place of consignment. ■
In particular, the movement certificate A. 3 may be used /ok goods exported from a State party to the Agreement to a country*' I'. not party to the Agreement, from which they are liable to be re- } . exported subsequently to a State party to the Agreement. I j?"*
prospectuses, etc., which may help identification. If they consider /
it necessary, the customs authorities of the exporting eountry -shajl V. annex these documents to the movement certificate A. 3.
*.. be eligible for this preferential treatment in the Member States of ;
the E.E.C. The customs author
the E.E.C. The djstoms authorities of the importing State may
is doubt as to the identity of the
" is doubt as to the identity of the goods and may exclude the goods
. require submission of any suppor
require submission of any supporting evidence if they consider there/
' from the progressive ciiminatior
from the progressive elimination of customs duties, quantitative ■;
■ restrictions ano all measures havi
restrictions ano all measures having equivalent effect if satisfactory
evidence cannot be nrndiiwd.
evidence cannot be produced. ..-..'O
on the application of Artiola 8 of the Agreement of Association in respect of trade between the new Mem­
ber States and Greece
Having regard to the Agreement setting up an Association between the European Economic Community and Greece and in particular Article 8 (l) and Protocol No. 3 annexed to the Agreement ; i '
WHEREAS an Additional Protocol was signed on j~. J and an Interim Agreement to anticipate certain provisions of the Additional Protocol on trade has come into
force /I July 19757.
WHEREAS Article 8 of the Agreement of Association lays down for each period daring which customs duties are being eliminated the percentage to be used to determine
the rate of compensatory levy to be paid in the exporting State in respect of goods ' obtained in Member States of the Community or in Greece in the manufacture of
which have been incorporated products from third countries which were neither in free circulation in the Member States nor in Greece ;
WHEREAS in anticipation of the entry into force of the Additional Protocol the Interim Agreement provides that the provisions in question shall apply also to t_-ade between the new Member States and Greece j
WHEREAS, the new Member States and Greece shall apply until 30 Deo. 1977 inclusive, by virtue of provisions of the Interim Agreement and the Additional Protocol customs duties and charges having equivalent effect different from those appli­ cable under the Agreement of Association between the Community as originally constituted and Greece ; whereas accordingly special provisions need to be adopted
. as regards the special percentage of the customs duties of the Common Customs Tariff to be used for the calculation of the compensatory levy referred to in Article '8 of the Agreement of Association in respect of trads between the new Member States and Greece :
WHEREAS the Common Customs Tariff does not apply to ECSC goods j HAS EECIDES :
Complementary to the provisions taken pursuant to Article 8 of the Agreement of Association in respect of trade between the original Community and Greece the percentages of the duties to he taken into consideration for determination of the rate of the compensatory levy to apply in trade between the new Member States and Greece during the period referred to in Article 2 of the Interim Agreement shall be laid down by this Decision.
For goods manufacture^-in new Member States of the Community, the percentage shall be as follows :
(a) 60fo for the period as from ^Ehe date of entry into force of the Interim Agreement_7to 31 December 1975 inclusive,
80fa for the period as from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1977 inclusive -
for goods referred to be in Article 14 of the Agreement of Association j
(b) 21,6^ as from the^date of entry into force of the Interim Agreement^ for goods referred to in Article 15 of the Agreement.
For goods manufactured m Greece the percentage shall be as follows :
- 60fo for the period as from ^the date of entry into force of the Interim Agreement/to 31 December 1975 inclusive,
- 80% for the period as from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1977 inclusive.
As regards goods manufactured from ECSC – products» the percentages referred to in Articles 2 and 3 shall apply to the rates of the ECSC unified tariff
in force in the Community as originally constituted in respect of European Coal and Steel Community products used in manufacture.
This Beoisiori fefr&ll apply as from»*....£<i»t« of tha entry into for00 of the Interim Agreement7
Done at Brussels , Por the Council The President
Regulation of the Council of 1975
on the implementation of provisions
adopted under the Association between the European
Economic Community and Greece in respect of
the movement of goods
under the extension of the Association to the new Member States
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and in particular Article 113 thereof;
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission ;
Whereas an Additional Protocol to extend the Association between the European Economic Community as originally constituted and Greece to the new Member States was signed on J J ; whereas an Interim Agreement to anticipate certain provisions of the Additional Protocol has come into force /± July 197^7#
Whereas by virtue of Article 12 of the said Interim Agreement the Council of Association has adopted Decision No /75» on the methods of administrative co-operation for implementation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Agreement of Associa­ tion for the whole of the intra-Association trade ; whereas the Council of Association has at the same time "by Decision No....../75 adopted special provisions for a period ending 30 June 1977 in respect of the percentage of the duties of the Common Customs Tariff to be used to determine the rate of the compensatory levy referred to in Article 8 of the Council of Association for trade between the new Member States and Greece ;
Whereas measures must be taken for the implementation of the Decisions referred to above and to this end to amend Regulation (EEC) 610/72^ in respect of the compensatory levy to be collected in trade between the new Member States and Greece.
Deoision No /75 of the Council of Association annexed to this regu­ lation shall apply as regards methods of administrative co-operation for imple­
mentation of Articles 7 and 8 of the Agreement of Association.
Regulation (EEC) 610/72 is amended as follows :
(a) The second sub-paragraph of Article 2 is replaced as follows :
"As regards goods manufactured from European Coal and Steel Community products the percentage shall apply to the rates of the unified tariff
in force in the Community as originally constituted in respect of European Coal and Steel Community products used in manufacture."
(b) Insert the following Article : "Article 5 h
In derogation from the provisions of Articles 5 an<i 5A the percentage of duties to be used in respect of goods obtained or produced in new Member States shall be as follows :
( a) 60% for the period from /l July 197^/to 31 December 1975 inclusive 80% for the period from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1977 inclusive
for goods referred to in Article 14 of the Agreement of Association
(b) 21,6% as frorn/1 July 197^7
for goods referred to in Article 15 of the said Agreement."
(l) Regulation (EEC) No 610/72 of the Council of 23 march 1972 on the
application of provisions adopted within the Association established between the European Economic Community and Greece on the movement of goods in the manufacture of which are used third country products and are not in free circulation either in the Community or Greece (O.J. Special Edition
(Second Series) I External Relations (l), P«73) as last amended by Regu­ lation (EEC) 2911/74, 7 November 1974 (O.J. No L 313» 25 November 1974» P«52)
This Regulation enters into force on £ 1 July 1975,J •
This Regulation. shall he binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels Por the Council The President
tredjeland ,
