concluding the Exchange of Letters relating to Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel and concerning the importation into the Community of fruit salads
from Israel
(Submitted by the Commission to the Council)
The Agreement "between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel was signed in Brussels on 11 May 1975«
Article 9 of Protocol No 1 annexed to the Agreement makes provision for a reduction of the customs duties on imports into the Community of certain products, including fmit salads, originating in Israel, subject to the conditions agreed upon "by exchange of letters being respected.
Consequently, the Commission recommends that the Council adopt the draft Regulation on the annexed Exchange of Letters, which lays down the conditions governing the importation into the Community of fruit salads from Israel.
The Regulation in question should enter into force on 1 July 1975? at the same time as the Agreement itself#
The financial implications are negligible.
Reasons for détails given in timetable:
This Regulation must enter into force on 1 July 1975» at "the same time the Agreement with Israel itself.
Recommended dates for:
the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committees ___
the Opinion of the European Parliament :
concluding the Exchange of Letters relating to Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the State of
Israel and concerning the importation into the Community of fruit salads from Israel
Having regard to' the (Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof;
Having regard to the Recommendation from the Commission;
Whereas the Agreeuent between the European Ecorawaic Community and" the State of Israel has been signed on 11 May 1975 5
Whereas the Exchange of Letters relating to Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel and concerning the importation into the Community of fruit salads from Israel should be concluded;
The Exchange of Letters relating to Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel and concerning the importation into the Community of fmit salads from Israel is concluded on behalf of the Community.
The text of the Exchange of Letters is annexed to this Regulation.
The President of the Council shall be authorized to designate the person empowered to sign the Exchange of Letters referred to in Article 1, and
to invest him with the necessary power to commit the Community.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 July 1975*
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels, Por the Counoil, The President
 Draft exchange of letters on the "fruit salads" referred to in Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community
and the State of Israel signed on 11 May- 1975
In pursuance of Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement concluded
between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel and
following the clarifications exchanged concerning imports into the CommunityofpreservedfruitsaladsofsubheadingNo 20.06BII(a)ex9
or 20.06 B II (b) ex 9 of the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Israel,
I have the honour to inform you that Israel undertakes to take all
necessary measures in order that the quantities supplied to the Community
from the 1st July up to and including 31 December 1975 do not exceed 100 tonnes .
To this end the Government of Israel states that all exports to the Community of preserved fruit salads originating in Israel will be effected exclusively through exporters whose activity is supervised by "
The guarantees relating to quantities will be achieved in accordance with the procedures agreed between " 1 (l) and the Directorate-General for Agriculture of the Commission of the European Communities .
I should be grateful if you would kindly confirm the Communitys * agreement with the foregoing.
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of ay highest consideration. (signed) Ambassador
(l) The controlling body is in the course of being established in Israel and its exact title will be inserted as soon as communicated by the Israeli authorities
I havo the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today worded as follow'3 :
"In pursuance of Article 9 °f Protocol No 1 to the Agreement concluded j between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel and I following the :- clarifications exchanged concerning imports into - the'
Com.mxnj.ty. of preserved fruit salads of subheading No 20.06 3 II (a) ex 9
or 20,06 B II (b) ex 9 of the Common Customs Tariff, Originating in Israel, • I. hare the honour to inform you that Israel undertakes to take all j necessary measures in order that the quantities supplied to the Community 1 from tne 1st July iip to and including 31 December 1975 d° not exceed 100 torn
To this end the Government of Israel states that all exports to the
Community of preserved fruit salads originating" in Israel will be effected
• exclusively through exporters whose activity is supervised by " II
The guarantees relating to quantities will be achieved in accordance with | the procedures agreed between " " and j the Directorate-General for Agriculture of the Commission of the European ! Communities .
I should be grateful if you would kindly confirm the Communitys' agreement with the foregoing." !
I am in a position to" confirm the Communitys' agreement with the foregoing. ....
(signed) Head of the ; > ■ Community Delegation
concluding the Exchange of Letters relating to Article 9 Protocol No 1 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the
State of Israel and concerning the importation into the Community of fruit salads from Israel
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
The Agreement "between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel was signed, in Brussels on 11 May 1975*
Article 9 of Protocol No 1 annexed to the Agreement malces provision for a reduction of the customs duties on imports into the Community of certain products , including fruit salads , originating in Israel , subject to the conditions agreed upon "by exchange of letters "being respected.
Consequently, the Commission recommends that the Council adopt the draft Regulation on the annexed Exchange of Letters, which lays down the
conditions governing the importation into the Community of fruit salads from Israel.
The Regulation in question should enter into force on 1 July 1975t at the same time as the Agreement itself.
The financial implications are negligible.
concluding the Exchange of Letters relating to Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the State of
Israel and concerning the importation into the Community of fruit salads from Israel
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof;
Having regard to the Recommendation from the Commission;
Whereas the Agreement between the European Economic Community and--the State of Israel has: been signed on 11 Ifcy 1975 ;
Whereas the Exchange of Letters relating to Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel and concerning the importation into the Community of fruit salads from Israel should be concluded;
The Exchange of Letters relating to Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel and concerning the importation into the Community of fruit salads from Israel is concluded on behalf of the Community.
The text of the Exchange of Letters is annexed to this Regulation. K
The President of the Council shall be authorized to designate the person empowered to sign the Exchange of Letters referred to in Article l t and
to invest him with the necessary power to commit the Community.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 July 1975*
This Regulation shall "be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. -
For the Council, The President
 Draft exchange of letters on the "fruit salads" referred to xn Article 9 ofProtocolNo 1totheAgreementbetweentheEuropeanEconomicCommunity
and the State of Israel signed on 11 May 1975
In pursuance of Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement concluded
between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel and
following the clarifications exchanged concerning imports into the Communityofpreservedfruitsalads6fsubheadingNo 20.06BII(a)ex9
or 20.06 B II (b) ex 9 of "the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Israel,
I have the honour to inform you that Israel undertakes to take all
necessary measures in order that the quantities supplied to the Community , from the 1st July up to and including 31 December 1975 do not exceed 100 tonnes
To this end the Government of Israel states that all exports to the ' . Community of preserved fruit salads originating in Israel will be effected exclusively through exporters whose activity is supervised by "
The guarantees relating to quantities will be achieved in accordance with
the procedures agreed between " " (l)
and the Directorate-General for Agriculture of the Commission of the European Communities .
I should be grateful if you would kindly confirm the Communitys ' agreement with the foregoing.
Please accept, Sir, the assurance of my highest consideration. (signed) Ambassador
(1) The controlling body is in the course of being established in Israel and its exact title will be inserted as soon as communicated by the
I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your letter of today worded as follows :
"In pursuance of Article 9 of Protocol No 1 to the Agreement concluded
between the European Economic Community and the State of Israel and
following the clarifications exchanged concerning imports into the
Community of preserved fruit salads of subheading No 20.06 B II (a) ex 9
or 20.06 B II (b) ex 9 of the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Israel,
I have the honour to inform you that Israel undertakes to take all
necessary measures in order that the quantities supplied to the Community
from the 1st July up to and including 31 December 1975 do not exceed 100 tonnes,
To this end the Government of Israel states that all exports to the
Community of preserved fruit salads originating in Israel will be effected
exclusively through exporters whose activity is supervised by "
The guarantees relating to quantities will be achieved in accordance with the procedures agreed between " " and
the Directorate-General for Agriculture of the Commission of the European Communities .
I should be grateful if you would kindly confirm the Communitys' agreement with the foregoing." . '
I am in a position to confirm the Communitys' agreement with the foregoing.
(signed) Head of the Community Delegation
