In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
Réunions officieuses
1.7# Finan°iyie_en teohnisohe samenwerking en sales promotion
Seventh Special Session of the UN General Assembly and mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy for the Second UN Development Decade
Seventh Special Session of the UN General Assembly and mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy for the Second UN Development Decade
International economic cooperation is assuming growing importance in the work of the United Nations agencies. Following the Sixth Special Session of the General Assembly in April 1974> which led to a "Declaration" and a "Programme of Action", the new special session (1-12 September 1975) on development and international economic cooperation must in particular give an impetus to the International Development Strategy for the Second Decade, which is at present undergoing its mid-term review. The Preparatory Committee for the Seventh Special Session will hold its second meeting from 16 to 27 June.
In this context the Community and the Member States can and must play a constructive and active role; however, they will be able to play this
role and receive an adequate hearing only if they show a united front . Community action should be based on a spirit of dialogue and conciliation and aim to provide a real consensus. As to the substance, the Development Strategy should be adapted to take account of changes which have occurred since the beginning of the Decade and in the light of the new relations of strength prevailing in the world. The Community*s contribution should be concerned with a balanced range of subjects answering the major concerns of the developing countries and providing real chances of progress.
For raw materials, the Commission confines itself to repeating the proposals contained in its Communication to the Council of 22 May 1975*
On the matter of international trade it is first of all proposed to state
that the Community is willing to maintain and improve its generalized system
of preferences. With regard to the multilateral trade negotiations the
Community should confirm that it intends to take into consideration the interests of
 the developing countries, in line with Council . Moreover , measures affecting accompanied by action to promote trade
the directives approved "by the import arrangements should he relations.
On the subject of industrial cooperation and the transfer of technology, the Community and its Member States should identify themselves more clearly with the industrial results proper of the Lima Conference (UHIDO). A special effort mast be made to help firms play a part in industrial cooperation in such a way as to meet the developing countries* interests. To this end, the Community and the Member States should indicate their will to cooperate with the governments of developing countries, to step up information, promotion and cooperation activities, to encourage investment and other outside help, to improve the conditions for the transfer of technology, while insisting
on the need for a favourable climate for foreign firms. The Community must be aware of the consequences which the redeployment of certain industries to developing countries will have for its internal structures.
With regard to the transfer of real resources it is suggested that the official development assistance objective be confirmed, a geographical reorientation of aid envisaged, special priority given to food problems, particular attention paid to the problem of indebtedness and triangular cooperation be developed . Lastly , it is proposed that constructive attitudes be adopted at the international financial institutions as regards the "third window", the "oil facility", the link between SDRs and development aid, and modification of IMP quotas .
Seventh Special Session of the UN General Assembly and mid–term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy for the Second UN Development Decade
The purpose of this Communication is to submit to the Council the information and factors of assessment necessary for participation "by the Community in the above exercise and, more particularly, the Commission's recommendations for the purpose of defining the Community contribution to the Seventh Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly.
Paa-e Antecedents and "background 3
Contributions from the Community 12
Raw materials 13 International trade 15 Industrial cooperation and transfer of technology 18 Transfer of financial resources and international
monetary system 25
Progress of the developing countries during the first half of the Second Development Decade with particular reference to the goals and objectives of the International Development Strategy
The Community's action and achievements in the context of implementation of the Strategy.
AnnexIII: Timetableofmeetings(ReviewandAppraisaland Seventh Special Session).
Provisional list of areas and concrete questions of international economic cooperation approved by the Group of 77
in connection with the preparations for
the Special Session of the General Assembly.
Introduction: Antecedents and "background
1 . The growing importance of economic cooperation at international level and the increased interest shown in such matters "by the United Nations have over the past few years had a clear-cut effect on the activities
of the United Nations organs. The tendency to incorporate these activities into increasingly structured programmes is more and more marked .
The first United Nations Development Decade covered the sixties. It was drawn up in relatively vague terms and included only two precise
quantitative objectives, concerning the transfer of resources to developing countries and the average growth rate of the national product of those countries .
The International Development Strategy was adopted "by a consensus , with certain reservations, on 24 October 1970 (Resolution No 2626 (XXV)). It lays down a programme for the Second Decade , takes up again and reinforces the same growth objectives, supplements them "by other objectives and endeavours also to assess the qualitative changes on the way towards integrated economic and social progress. In addition, appropriate arrangements were adopted for reviewing regularly the implementation of this Strategy in order to
assess progress, determine inadequacies and their causes and recommend,
where necessary, supplementary policies and aims.
This review and general appraisal of progress achieved is carried out by ECOSOC every two years.
The first appraisal by the General Assembly took place at its 28th Ordinary Session in 1973 (Resolution No 3176 (XXVTIl)).
The purpose of the second appraisal, which is to be undertaken now, is to review the situation half-way through the Decade.
2. Because of the economic crisis which broke out at the end of 1973 a special session of the General Assembly, the sixth of its kind, was held in
New York in April 1974 on the initiative of the President of Algeria, Mr Boumedienne.
 Its immediate aim was to examine the problems of raw materials from the
point of view of development and in particular their influence on the
situation of the countries most seriously affected by the crisis. The
main object of its work, nevertheless, was to assess the existing economic order and define the rules for a^New International Economic Order'7 These
rules are defined in general terms in a "Declaration" (Resolution No 3202 (S–'VI)) and expressed in more specific form in a "Programme of Action" (Resolution No 3202 (S-Vl)).
In the eyes of the developing countries, all United Nations activities in the economic field must henceforth follow the lines of this Declaration and
Programme of Action so that, as all the provisions contained in them are UU
progressively implemented, a"new international economic order can replace the
old relations based on strength . The Programme of Action specifies , for
example , that it complements and strengthens the goals and objectives of the International Development Strategy and that the latter will have to be adapted
in order to align it on the Declaration on the Establishment of a^New International
Economic 0rder"and the Programme of Action.'
It should be noted that although the Declaration and Programme of Action were formally adopted by a consensus, they nevertheless include a large number of provisions which were not acceptable to most developed countries. The developing countries1 refusal to take account of the reservations expressed on this occasion and the resulting ambiguity have made it more difficult to resort subsecjuently to the consensus procedure.
At its 28th Session in 1973 (Resolution No 3172 (XXVIIl)), the General
Assembly decided to devote a special session to development and international
economic cooperation with a view to examining the main themes and problems
connected with the development process, identifying and adopting the necessary
changes in the structures and organs of the United Nations and studying the
transformations which should be undertaken in the general configuration of international economic relations .
This special session will take place from 1 to 12 September 1975. It will be prepared by a Preparatory Committee which, after a brief session on
organizational matters (March 1975) v:ill meet from 16 to 27 June in order to finalize a paper recapitulating the specific recommendations in the light of which the General Assembly will at its special session be able to give a boost to the Development Strategy on the basis of objectives and supporting policies intended to ensure that they are carried out in accordance with a strict timetable .
In this context, the results of the World Food Conference and the Second
General UNTDO Conference must not be forgotten since they represent achievements which the work of the UN will have to take into account. This alse applies to the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States adopted at the last Ordinary Session of the General Assembly . This Charter , however , includes a relatively large number of articles which most developed countries, particularly the
Member States of the Community, have not been able to accept in their present
wording. Finally, the Fourth UN Conference on Trade and Development, to be held next year in Nairobi, will represent a major new element among those determining the direction to be taken by the Seventh Special Session.
5. On the same lines, the conclusions of the meeting of the OECD Council, which took place at ministerial level on 28 and 29 May 1975» should "be mentioned; following that meeting the Ministers expressed their firm determination to pursue the dialogue with developing countries in all appropriate forums, particularly at
the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly. They also decided that the OECD should examine the economic relations between its member countries and
developing countries with a view to identifying new and constructive avenues which may "be explored regarding certain fundamental questions and to giving renewed support and impetus to the negotiations conducted elsewhere.
6. The mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy, the action to be taken following the Sixth Special Session of the General Assembly on the establishment of a''New International Economic Order*and the
decisions to be taken at the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly are inseparably linked.
Although strictly speaking these are three distinct exercises they nevertheless all directly concern economic cooperation for development. This is why the Commission considers that it must deal with the mid-decade review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy and the preparation for the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly at the same time. The deadlines which the Member States and the Community will have to meet are set out in Annex III.
 Part One : Community 's general approach
1. In the eiercise which will consist of drawing conclusions from the successes and failures and in particular from the new international context
in order to redefine tomorrow's international economic relations, the Community and its Member States have a constructive contribution, perhaps a decisive one, to make.
Firstly , the Community is now expected to play an active role . Over the
past two years the Community's role in the international organizations, particularly in the United Nations, has developed considerably because of the increased attention given to development cooperation "by the United Nations and because of the widening of the Community's activities in this field. Moreover, this trend has been confirmed by the granting to the Community of observer
status in the General Assembly.
Secondly, to participate constructively in seeking a new type of international economic relations is in keeping with the Community's interests. Given
that for both its sources of supply and its outlets the Community depends more than other industrialized countries on the existence of a propitious climate in relations between developing countries and developed countries it has no alternative but to take an active part in the debate whose outcome will determine the quality of those relations.
2. This active role can be effectively played by the Community and its Member States only if they present a united front at the coming international meetings .
To the fact that the topics to be dealt with fall largely within the Community's jurisdiction or are of special interest to the common market and must therefore be the subject of common positions must be added a major political reason: it is only by concerting their positions and presenting
common views that the Member States and. the Community will carry sufficient weight and therefore have a real chance of influencing the outcome of the work. If there is a lesson to "be drawn from recent experiences such as the UNIDO Conference in Lima, this is it.
It must "be recognized that although not a little progress has "been made as to Community cohesion the latter has often failed, to withstand the final test of the vote on resolutions "by the United Nations organs. Now - rightly or wrongly - it is mainly "by the unity of lack of it shown "by the Member States in the final vote that Community cohesion is judged.
The Commission therefore considers that it is vital for common positions to
"be defined on all the matters dealt with and for those positions to "be observed "by the Member States throughout the course of the work, especially when it
comes to a vote. A Community whose cohesion third countries are used to seeing disintegrate at the final stage of international meetings cannot in the long
run maintain , let alone increase , its standing and influence .
The objective of defining common positions must of course be to increase and improve the contributions made by cooperation as a whole. The tendency, therefore, must be to uprate common positions, not so to align different positions on the lowest level in terms of cooperation.
3. The spirit underlying Community action must be that of dialogue and conciliation .
The special situation of interdependence between the Community and the developing countries must quite naturally lead the Community to do eveiything possible to reduce the climate of confrontation which has marked the United Nations since
the Sixth Special Session of the General Assembly. Within the political spectrum of the United Nations the Community is, moreover, particularly well placed to play the role of moderator and to reduce antagonism. Furthermore, the Community has shown through many recent initiatives, "both in the regional and in the world aspects of its cooperation policy, that it is opting clearly for cooperation as opposed to confrontation.
On their side , according to information obtained recently , the developing countries seem to want to restore a climate which is more favourable to
international cooperation. It should "be noted that in the work which has
so far "been carried out in preparation for the Seventh Special Session they seem to have shown a spirit of moderation and greater realism than in the past.
The situation therefore seems rather favourable for a "breakthrough in cooperation in the strict sense of the word. The Community could here play the part of the
driving force "behind western coordination and of mediator vis-a-vis developing countries .
4. The above shows that the Community will have to make a serious effort to reach a consensus "by negotiating mutually acceptable compromises.
This search for a consensus as to substance must not, however, be interpreted as an acceptance in advance and at any price of a consensus procedure, in other words of the adoption of the conclusions without a vote. The partners in the international debate must agree to aim at clarity in their work and
to find formulae which do not hide the areas of disagreement but indeed delimit them clearly so that they can be tackled all the more effectively.
5. With regard to the approach to be adopted as to substance, the Commission considers that the aim should be to bring up to date the International Strategy for the Second Development Decade by adapting it to the new situation and adopting a fresh approach by reference to the main shortfalls noted.
In adopting "this kind of initiative, the Community and its Member States will "be helping not only to strengthen the Strategy as an overall instrument of cooperation, hut also to build a more equitable international economic order.
It will not be sufficient for the Community*s contribution to rest simply on an analysis of the results achieved during the first half of the Development Decade and to take account of the present situation of economic crisis; it must also be guided by acceptance of the fact that there is a new relationship of strength now determining relations between developing and developed countries, which originates in and is expressed by the dramatic increase in the price of oil . This new relationship has been demonstrated subsequently by growing solidarity within the Group of 77•
It is obvious - as the 77 seem to acknowledge – that the updating must be limited to subjects and areas in which real progress may reasonably be expected. The Community should therefore forestall any attempt to recast the Strategy completely on the basis of the extreme demands of the developing countries expressed in the "Charter". This will be all the easier as the Community will show itself to be constructive and ready to compromise where possible.
In thus opting for the principle of a selective approach - the choice of subjects being dependent on what appears realistic and feasible - the Commission felt it
must also draw attention to the necessity of striking a reasonable balance
between the various subjects. For recent experience shows that in the view of the developing countries the various subjects for cooperation are closely interconnected: from the point of view of their negotiating power, oil serves as a lever for
raw materials, the latter serving as a lever for industrial cooperation, etc.
Hence the phenomenon of "globalization" of the debate on international cooperation.
In these circumstances, it would not be realistic to think that by defining a constructive position on a single subject , however important , for instance raw materials , the Community is responding adequately to its partners 1 expectations .
The Commission therefore proposes that the Community adopt a "balanced selectivity" approach, which means that the Community would be prepared to tackle
constructively the most important subjects which , in its partners * eyes ,
are so closely interconnected that virtually parallel progress is required.
Where immediate progress does not appear possible, the problems should at least be identified and a timetable laid down for seeking solutions in the near future. Since the Seventh Special Session and the ordinary session to follow it will be merely one stage in an on-going process, the impetus which they give to future work will be almost as important as the immediate results .
6. As regards specific subjects, the 77» in a document of 1 May 1975 (Annex TV), drew up a provisional list of the specific areas and questions which they
would like to see tackled during the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly.
This list, which they describe as very limited and selective, actually contains a great many problems. The Commission considers, however, that in order to show a conciliatory spirit the Community could accept that this list, without prejudging the substance of the problems referred to in it, be adopted as
a working hypothesis with a view to the drawing up of the agenda by the Preparatory Committee (2nd session) when it meets in Hew York from
16 to 27 June 1975 *
7 . The review and appraisal of "the International Development Strategy , and the parallel process of preparing and convening the Seventh Special Session
of the General Assembly, will culminate in the Thirtieth Ordinary Session of the General Assembly, which will provide a synthesis in the resolutions it adopts. The Community cannot, however, lose sight of the psychological importance attached "by the developing countries to the Seventh Special Session. For this reason, the Commission considers that the most important Community contributions to the strengthening of international economic cooperation will have to "be presented at that special session.
Part Two ; Contributions from the Community
The initiatives taken recently at Community level regarding development cooperation have strongly emphasized the need for an approach which is comprehensive, but geared to the various specific problems to be resolved in certain types of situation. This was the idea expressed
in the Commission Communication to the Council of 5 November 1974 on development aid (the "Fresco") ; this approach has now been enshrined in exemplary fashion in the Lom£ Convention.
Although, for practical reasons the Commission will in what follows below
be dealing successively with raw materials , international trade , industrial cooperation , the transfer of technology and the transfer of real resources , it would , however , like to stress two points :
1. The various chapters are interconnected in that the various instruments of cooperation complement one another or are even mutually inter­ dependent ;
2. The various fields of cooperation are of differing interest to the various categories of developing countries because of their specific problems .
In what it proposes here , the Commission has taken account of the difficulties which the Community's economy is currently passing through. It is also relying on the effect which any action proposed by the Community can have of carrying along with it the international community.
The Commission has already transmitted a Communication to the Council on raw materials on 22 May 1975* The Community contribution at the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly could therefore include the main points of this Communication, which the Commission has outlined below .
The Community must define an overall approach with a view to adopting
a clear and constructive policy towards the developing countries*
claims. This approach could be based on seeking the following objectives fair and remunerative prices without excessive fluctuations providing
a long-term balance between production and consumption; the diversification of production and the development of the processing
of raw materials in developing countries; the stability of developing countries * export earnings ; special treatment for the poorest countries ; stability of the consumer countries * raw materials supplies .
This approach could be implemented in the following ways:
Measures aimed at the elimination of the tariff and noi>-tariff
barriers which hinder access to the markets of the industrialized
countries, particular attention being given to the problem of the protection of the added value of the products of first-stage processing .
Promotion of development and processing in situ via a contractual framework aimed at encouraging activity by business firms and the transfer of technology.
3 . Production and supplies
Search for appropriate financial mechanisms.
4* Information and consultation
Improvement of exchanges of information on the supply and demand situation.
5. Measures to limit excessive price fluctuations
Product–by–product examination of the problems, "based on the diversity of the situations, with special attention toeing paid to products exported mainly by the developing countries, in particular "by means of international product agreements which may include stockpiling measures.
6 . Stabilization of export earnings
International financing with the participation of all countries which have adequate resources available. The procedure for implementing this measure should be studied from the angle of the beneficiary countries and the products concerned. Such action would be in addition to the aid currently granted to developing countries.
The commercial policy field is one of the sectors m which the Community can make a positive contribution to the work of the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly. Generally speaking, the developing countries1 desiderata are especially concentrated on the principle of access to markets} freer aocess should progressively be given to imports of raw materials,
and industrial semi-manufactures and manufactures from developing countries.
In this field the Community can adopt a positive attitude by basing itself on the one hand on measures to be taken under the multilateral GATT
negotiations, and on the other hand, on application of the generalized system of preferences.
In accordance with the Resolution adopted by the Council on 3 March 1975 the Community is able to reaffirm its desire to maintain and improve its generalized scheme of preferences.
With regard to maintaining the scheme, the Community can state that it considers it necessary for the preferences scheme to be extended beyond 1980. This positive attitude may be reinforced by action to convince other donor countries also to consider the possibility of extending their scheme beyond that date.
With regard to improvement of the scheme three broad lines may be taken into consideration:
(a) increasedutilizationofthepresentCommunityscheme,particularlyby means of measures aimed at simplifying it;
(c) improvementandappropriateadjustmentoftheCommunityschemeinthe light of the developing countries* expansion potential and the Community's economic potential.
 According to the avowed intention of the Council such improvement will have to take particular account of the interests of the least developed countries.
The directives approved "by the Council on 11 February 1975 already constitute a complete series of lines of action, vis-^-vis both developed and developing countries, regarding the multilateral trade negotiations under GATT which opened officially in September 1973 *n Tokyo "but did not actually start until February 1975* It is therefore not so much a matter of adding to these guidelines as replacing them, if necessary, with a view to trade cooperation in this field. While emphasizing that this is a specific case of trade negotiations based on the principle of reciprocity of concessions and the balancing of mutual advantages the Community can confirm the intention already
expressed in the Tokyo Declaration to take particular account of the developing countries* interests by considering their needs and their specific economic situations .
Taking into consideration developing countries * interests should in particular mean :
(a) priority treatment (tariff and nonr-tariff) for tropical products;
(b) a common search for appropriate tariff solutions, on the basis of general formula to emerge from the negotiations, aimed at adapting the extent of tariff reductions or the phasing of such reductions and the detailed rules for applying any solutions regarding non^tariff barriers to the specific needs of the developing countries ;
(c) a special effort to bring about, at tariff level, a significant reduction in
the protection of value added for products of first-stage processing, for
instance each time that the latter results in a high rate of effective protection;
(d) taking into account developing countries* interests and problems by means of food aid measures and the beneficial effects of the stabilization of markets.
3. Promotion of trade relations
Experience has proved that progress which can be made in the specific field of import arrangements is not by itself enough to increase developing countries'
exports to the industrialized countries * markets . It seems necessary , in view of those countries' economic structure in the trade field, to accompany measures affecting import arrangements "by trade cooperation.
In particular this is a question of measures to be taken in the trade promotion
field. The Community has already indicated, in the Council Resolution of July 1974
the importance it attaches to this problem and its intention to aid developing
countries which are not members of the ACP. Action already taken to improve
the structures relating to the promotion of trade and to encourage developing countries' participation in fairs and exhibitions should be reinforced ty new measures for
training trade promotion experts and carrying out market research and surveys.
In the light of experience gained in all these fields under the Yaounde Convention and in line with what is intended in the Lome Convention, progress could also be made on improving cooperation between the Community's business firms and developing countries in the trade field by establishing firmer and closer relations to provide importers and exporters with a better understanding of the problems involved. Other measures to promote cooperation between certain industrial sectors of the developing countries and the Community's firms should be taken into consideration, making allowances for the special characteristics of the various developing countries .
Trade cooperation measures could be organized on the one hand within the framework of bilateral relations with the various developing countries and,
on the other, within the framework of the Community's relations with the regional integration areas established among developing countries. Agreement could be sought with other industrialized countries on improving understanding and providing an exchange of information in this particular field.
III . INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION AMI TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY 1 • Extension of Lima
In the field of industrial cooperation the Seventh Special Session will be the direct extension of the Second General Conference of UNIDO, which was held in Una from 12 to 27 March 1975.
This Conference marked an important stage in the definition of new guidelines
for industrial cooperation. The vital need for developing countries to increase the pace of their industrial development was recognized more clearly than ever
and here an extremely ambitious quantified target was set (25$ share of world industrial production for the developing countries in the year 2000). The need for the redeployment of industries, for a new distribution of industrial activities in the world, for on-the-spot processing of raw materials was clearly acknowledged. The principle of a certain framework for the operations ©f multinational companies has been accepted. The question of the consequences which industrial cooperation will undoubtedly have for the industrialized countries* internal structures has not been evaded.
2. Putting an end to the ambiguity of the Community's attitude
The Member States* attitude at the final vote on the Lima Declaration gave the impression of a lack of Community cohesion and gave rise to great ambiguity as to
the real position ; the votes of certain Member States must have seemed to contradict the constructive attitude proclaimed by the Community.
It should, however, be remembered that the vote was on ten paragraphs only, covering not more than five major problems which were virtually all outside the industrial field proper.
The Commission proposes that the Community and its Member States take the opportunity offered by the Seventh Special Session to identify themselves more clearly with the results achieved in Lima in the industrial field proper recognize that this Conference has provided a positive sectoral contribution to the establishment of
a^new international economic order"4f
See the Resolution on action to be taken following the decisions and recommendations of the Second General Conference of UUIDO adopted, with the approval of the Member States , by the Industrial Development Board of UNIDO in Vienna (21 April- 2 May 1975)*
 3« The role of firms
IndusIrial cooperation is clearly distinguishable from cooperation in other sectors - infrastructure, health measures, training, agriculture - in that close assistance from foreign firms is vital.
The Commission believes that here it must raise the point of a fundamental inconsistencyintheconclusionsarrivedatinLima: theindustrialdevelopment ambitions expressed at Lima seem difficult to reconcile with the developing countries* attitude of caution - almost of systematic suspicion - as regards private foreign firms in particular.
Here it is not enough to appeal to the developing countries to create a climate ofconfidence* Insteadthequestionshould"beexaminedwiththemofwhat
measures can he taken on both sides to bring the developing countries* requirements and the firms* legitimate interests into line with one another.
1 This is the subject on which the Commission proposes to base its considerations •
4* Strengthening of cooperation between governments
The Commission considers that the Community and the Member States should show that they are prepared to cooperate with the developing countries* governments on industrialization and that they are not simply going to leave firms a clear field .
Such cooperation would first deal with the traditional fields which come under
financial and technical cooperation infrastructure linked with industrialization, training, studies, etc.) and trade cooperation (access to the Community market, trade promotion). It must systematically support efforts aimed at regional cooperation among developing countries, which is especially vital for industrial development •
Although in the Communication presented here the Commission is concentrating on this specific subject, it would also like to point to the other guidelines which it suggested in its Communication to the Council in preparation for Lima (CCM(75)45 final of 12 February 1975) and which, since they still hold good, can continue to serve as a reference for Community positions on industrial cooperation.
 Beyond that, the developing countries attach great importance to oooperation in the Matter of a framework for the operations of firms, particularly transnational companies.
It must be realized that developing countries are generally ill-prepared
to deal with big firms and that they often find themselves exposed to quasi- monopelistic situations* It would therefore be appropriate to
abused, as industrialized countries do at home under rules guaranteeing the free play of competition*
The Commission therefore considers that developing countries should be able to rely on the Community to help them find a reasonable balance between their interests and those of foreign firms.
5. Development of industrial promotion and cooperation
With such a general cooperative attitude a wide field would be opened for industrial promotion measures aimed at studying concrete opportunities for industrialization and industrial cooperation, for organizing the flow of information and for facilitating all kinds of contact between promoters, firms and those responsible for industrial development .
To carry eut these functions, the Lom£ Convention has provided an original mechanism involving the establishment of a Centre for Industrial Development, managed jointly by the ACP States and the Community.
The Commission considers that this new initiative will be valuable in providing source of information on the conditions governing the effectiveness of this kind of action; when a certain amount of experience has been gained, it will
permit assessment of whether, and under what conditions , it would be possible and desirable to extend this form of cooperation to other developing countries. Certain trade oooperation agreements might here provide a favourable framework for such additional activity.
In the Commission's opinion, apart from information and promotion aimed at specifio points it would be advisable to improve the system for reciprocal information on foreseeable trends at least in some major industrial sectors
so thai; the risk of overcapacity or bottlenecks can be detected in time. Such an attempt at flexible cooperation must, however, take account of the limits set by our market-economy system.
The Commission considers that UBIDO could play a useful role in providing information on industrial developments at world level. However, it will be difficult, at least in the short term, to achieve real agreement within such a wide framework. Regional arrangements (such as the Community has concluded or is concluding, particularly with Black Africa and the Mediterranean region) may be more appropriate.
6. From traditional investments to new forms of cooperation with firms
Although a number of developing countries - those producing oil and sought-after raw materials - are now able to finance their industrial development from their national resources, this is not so for many others. For the latter foreign investment , whether public or private , should continue to be encouraged.
With regard to incentives to attract private investments the Commission suggests that the Member States organize, within the Community framework, an exchange of experiences on the effectiveness of the instruments - fiscal measures and guarantees - which they have used to improve the real impact. It still believes that the creation of a Community guarantee system would now more than ever be what industrial cooperation needs,
particularly in the case of transnational investments by firms from a number of Member States .
The appearance of surplus financial resources in certain developing countries should bring the Community and its Member States to promote to a greater extent triangular operations, combining these financial surpluses with the European countries 1 contributions of technology ,
management resources and training opportunities and with the raw materials and manpower resources of the developing countries which will act as host to the new industrial ventures .
For developing countries which are able "to do without foreign capital for their industrial development a new problem has arisen (or an old problem has taken on a new dimension) resulting from the disappointing experiences ofcertaindevelopingcountriesregardingturnkeyprojects: whowill provide a guarantee against the risk of industrial plant not living up to expectations .
Of course the governments of the industrialized countries will not be able to guarantee – as an Algeriarn-inspired resolution put forward at Lima asks them to – the quality and smooth operation of industrial schemes undertaken with the assistance of their nationals in developing countries. However, the Commission considers that the Community should at least acknowledge that the problem raised by Algeria is a real one when the foreign firm is no lbnger financially committed through a contribution of its own. It should state that it is prepared to help the developing countries identify the risks with which they are confronted. The Commission suggests that
the possibility be explored of setting up a system of insurance to enable European firms to assume additional responsibilities imposed upon them by developing countries.
As regards verifying the quality of services rendered competent bodies exist whose objectivity is undisputed and which might be used more systematically. Certain forms of official technical assistance (ad hoc expertise, temporary provision of advisers, accelerated training programmes, etc.) might prove useful where help is needed. In the case of firms which might prove to consist of unscrupulous businessmen, the pressures which the governments of the industrialized countries* can exercise, even if only through guarantee
systems for instance, should be fully recognized.
7. Improving the terms for the transfer of technology
Although any industrial cooperation scheme involves a transfer of technology so that it is not always easy to distinguish one from the other, the transfer of technology presents certain specific aspects which could be dealt with by special action.
 etc. Some of these measures presuppose the existence of even if only very modest resources.
!Ety thus aiding the developing countries to get a clearer complex problems involved in the transfer of technology,
idea of the very
the Community would contribute to restoring the free play of market forces in a field
The Community and the Member States are taking part in preparing within the framework of UNCTAD, an international code of conduct on technological transfer. The Commission feels that the Community and the Member States should state at the Seventh Special Session that they will actively pursue the efforts to achieve such a code and do their best to ensure that its rules – although they cannot be binding – are observed.
The Community could also announce that it intends to provide assistance
to ensure better transparency of the industrial property
documentation on available technology advice on choosing
adapted techniques, establishment of contact between those requiring and those supplying techniques , specialist training in industrial property ,
where competition is often lacking.
8 . The developing countries * contribution ! the welcome the.y provide
If the Community were prepared to offer these various forms of help in order to integrate its firms in industrial cooperation in a way which respects
the developing countries* sovereignty and takes maximum account of their interests it would be entitled to insist on a requirement from them in returns the welcome and the stability of the working conditions to be
firms . Rather than granting them privileges , the should clearly inform them of the rules and undertake Ijy doing this, they can keep their political options
as the possibility of nationalization provided that the
offered to foreign
to stick to them.
wide open, as well
latter is carried out with the neoessary fairness.
It should be emphasized to the developing countries that the climate of uncertainty is often the cause of a lack of dynamic commitment by foreign firms and - when they do commit themselves - the reason for excessive profits. The restoration of a climate of confidence, however, would attract industrial projects of normal profitability which, because they would not have to be amortized over a very short period, would not be carried out in an atmosphere of uncertainty.
market and to information and and developing
9. Consequences for the internal structures
The implementation of a substantial industrial cooperation policy implies a
number of choices involving the search for a new industrial balance in the
EEC countries. These policies of adjustment require that account be taken
of major trends , of the location of activities by sector in view of certain
constraints , such as the technological level of the industry considered or of the labour market .
The extent of industrial cooperation and of its corollary, the redeployment
of certain Community industries in the developing countries, will primarily depend upon making firms aware of this need and minimizing the foreseeable social upheavals by avoiding the necessary readaptation of industrialization being carried out at the expense of sacrifices imposed solely upon the working classes in the industrialized countries: (the European Social Fund is
already in a position to make a substantial contribution to retraining workers without waiting for them to become unemployed; action by the
European Bank, the EAGGF and the Regional Fund can enable the foreseeable imbalances to be minimized). The capacity for redeployment will also depend upon the EEC's ability to master an adequate technological dimension in strategically important fields (nuclear, informatics, aerospace) and to be competitive on an international scale.
The reluctance to invest abroad has so far been due, among other things, to the fear that such investment would involve a reduction in the investor
countries* internal growth. The extent to which the Community will be able to participate actively in the redeployment of industry - which , moreover , will be realized by the transfer of the growth of such and such an industrial
sector and not of entire sectors - will depend on whether there is prolonged economic stability.
IV. Transfer of financial resources and international monetary system
1 . Confirmation of the objective of official development assistance
An increased flow of financial resources is an important factor for the success of the second half of the Development Decade. The Commission considers
that the Member States should reconfirm publicly their desire, expressed jointly in the Resolution adopted in July 1974 by the Council , to attain as soon as possible the objective of O.lfo laid down in the Strategy, progressing
towards this objective at a rate determined by the distance at present
separating them from it . At the same time the Member States should
emphasize their resolve to insulate in so far as possible the development of their official development assistance from any budgetary or balance of payments difficulties in order to ensure that the flow of aid remains continuous, as recommended by the Strategy.
In support of their desire , the Member States and the Community will also be able to point to (besides intentions regarding the future development of each of the Member States* bilateral aid) the considerable increase in Community aid which will come about as a result of the financial provisions of the Lom£ Convention and the agreements to be concluded with the Mediterranean countries.
In the same context the Community should reaffirm the principle of granting financial and technical assistance to non-associated developing countries and announce that the terms under which this principle is to be implemented in the near future are currently being examined by the Community authorities. Here it could be emphasized that the technical assistance granted since
1974 "bo non-associated developing countries in trade promotion and regional
An exception being made for certain Member States which find themselves in a special situation.
integration matters, and in particular the Community contribution to the United Nations emergency action, already constitute the first steps in this direction .
On the other hand, the Commission considers that it is premature to discuss any requests which might he made "by the developing countries for reformulation of the official development assistance objective - either by taking into account interest payments or by excluding certain types of financial flows – as long as the objectives set previously have not been attained.
2. Reorientation of aid
Since it is mainly the poorest of the developing countries which suffered most from the inadequacy of the flow of aid during the early years of the Development Decade , it is important that , side by side with the increase in volume, the flow of official development assistance be
redirected towards those countries . The Commission considers that
the Member States and the Community will have to gear their respective aid programmes to this need and announce their intention to do so before the General Assembly.
Furthermore, to give greater weight to such a declaration, the Member States and the Community could take the initiative of proposing that a specific international objective be set in this field . Such eui objective , with regard to which a number of practical formulae are possible (and are currently being examined by the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD) , should aim at achieving a better correlation between the share of official development assistance intended for the least developed countries and the size of their population relative to the total population of the developing countries . The work on defining the detailed rules to be
adopted for this objective could be carried out as part of the work on updating the Strategy for the Second Decade.
 3 . Aid to specific sectors
With regard to the sectoral allocation of aid, greater attention will have to he paid in the future to the developing countries* food requirements and, in general, to the development of rural regions. The main objective in this field should "be to improve the standard of living of the worst off sections of the population by a wide variety of measures dealing with all aspects of rural
life. The Commission considers that the Member States of the Community should use their endeavours to see that a greater effort is made here by the international community. As regards their own aid programmes, the Member States should stress that they are willing to increase the share of aid devoted directly or indirectly to these objectives should the recipient countries so wish. In addition, it would be desirable if the Community could now state that current thinking on the extension of financial aid to non-associated developing countries was also tending in that direction.
At the same time the Community and the Member States should state that they intend to continue their food aid programmes – where local production remains structurally inadequate, and in emergency situations – and to increase both the volume and range of products supplied.
In the same context it should be possible to state that the Community authorities are studying whether and under what conditions the Community could contribute
to the International Pond for Agricultural Development should that Fund, which was proposed at the recent World Food Conference, be set up.
 4* The debt •problem
Greater attention will have to be paid in the future to the increasingly disturbing indebtedness of the developing countries. In particular, methods should be devised for assisting countries threatened by crises arising from indebtedness before such crises actually occur . However , the Commission considers that international measures to deal with this problem, in which the Member States should participate fully, cannot be undertaken in accordance with generalized rules applied automatically, as the developing countries would like. Instead, each individual case should be studied and dealt with by reference to the particular circumstances of that case, bearing in mind the need to preserve the international creditworthiness of the country concerned and – above all – to avoid discouraging the pursuit of prudent financial policies .
More important than curative measures , however , is the prevention of crises
arising from indebtedness by a suitable policy on the terms and geographical allocation of aid. The Commission therefore believes that the Member States
and the Community should, on the basis of the Resolutions adopted by the Council in 1974, confirm before the General Assembly their willingness to improve further the terms of their aid, in particular by increasing the overall proportion of grants, and to adapt those terms to the individual circumstances of each recipient country, special attention being paid to those developing countries which are or risk becoming heavily indebted.
On the other hand, the attention of the developing countries should be drawn
to the need for sound management of their external debts, which implies inter alia an effective system for recording and monitoring indebtedness, particularly in the private sector. The Member States and the Community should offer increased technical assistance in this field to all countries which so desire.
As a result mainly of the increased price of oil, certain developing countries now have substantial surplus financial resources, part of which can and must be devoted to the development of the Third World. This situation makes it possible to have new forms of cooperation, bringing together the surplus capital of the oil countries and the know-how of the developed countries, plus where appropriate, additional financial support from the latter.
Some Member States have already taken steps in this direction. It is important now to develop this incipient triangular cooperation – beyond what is already being done bilaterally and multilaterally – and to devise structures to provide a more systematic basis for this new form of cooperation. The Commission considers that the two sessions of the
General Assembly in the autumn could provide an opportunity for the Member States and the Community to launch such an initiative.
6. "Third window" and "oil facility"
The Commission suggests that the Member States adopt a positive attitude to the ideas put forward by the IBRD on establishing an intermediate financing mechanism, to fit in between loans from the Bank and those from the International Development Association (the "third window").
In addition, the Commission considers that it would be desirable for the Member States to confirm that they are prepared to make appropriate contributions to the special fund set up by the IMP in order to reduce the burden of interest which the most seriously affected countries will have to bear under the "oil facility".
7. Linking SDRs and development aid
At the Third Session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UKTCTAD) at Santiago in 1972, the Commission declared itself in favour of a link between special drawing rights (SDRs) and the financing of development, while emphasizing that this procedure should not involve the creation of excessive additional international liquidity. In the meantime the question has been extensively studied and discussed, particularly by the Group of Twenty responsible for drawing up an outline for the reform of the international monetary system. The question of a link is one of the points of the reform which must be settled during the interim period.
The Commission considers that the Member States of the Community should endeavour to speed up any decision on this matter. Such a decision will have to be compatible with the range of measures currently under discussion by the International Monetary Fund for improving the functioning of the international monetary system in the immediate future.
8. Quotas and voting rights in the International Monetary Fund
In accordance with the conclusions reached by the Council on 20 May 1975» the Community will assert its view that the IMF quotas of the developing countries which are net exporters of oil must be doubled as a percentage and those of the other developing countries maintained (at the same percentage level). The result would be to reduce the developed countries* quotas. I&r this procedure the voting rights of the developing countries as a whole would be quite considerably increased.
 Progress of the developing countries during the first
half of the Second Development Decade with particular reference to the Goals and Objectives of the International Development Strategy.
The results of the first half of the second development decade present
a rather diversified picture. Most of the quantitative targets laid down
in the Strategy , relating to overall production , industrial and agricultural production , trade expansion and domestic savings , were achieved or almost achieved during the period 1970 - "to 1973 ( the last year for which data is available).
On the other hand one of the most important targets was for agricultural production, yet there was a marked failure to reach anything approaching the Strategy target in this sector. Moreover the aggregate results achieved for developing countries as a whole concealed very considerable disparities
between them .
While it was relatively easy to identify successes or shortfalls in the achievement of the quantitative targets outlined in the Strategy, it
was much more difficult to evaluate the more general qualitative targets.
The qualitative goals of the Strategy were broad and ambitious s - to bring about a more equitable distribution of income and wealth for promoting social
justice and efficiency of production, to raise substantially the level of employment , to achieve a greater degree of income security , to expand and improve facilities for education , health , nutrition , housing and social welfare . The overall objective that of social development , including the eradication of mass poverty in the world, remains an elusive goal. Not­ withstanding the importance of these qualitative objectives , especially because of the pressing nature of the twin problems of structural unemployment and mass poverty, the rest of this paper focusses upon the economic results attained during the first part of the second development decade, where
concrete data is more readily available. 2. Overall growth
The developing countries achieved an overall growth rate of 5.7% between 1970 and 1973 , almost reaching the 6.0/& target for overall economic
growth in the Strategy. Given that the rate of population growth was about 2.5$ per annum ( a figure which was probably only marginally exceeded, according to recent estimates) then this would have led to a per capita growth rate in production of 3.1$ per annum, a little short of the Strategy target of 3.5$•
Yet these aggregate achievements concealed very considerable disparities, and tended to divert attention from the reality that only
a third of developing country populations lived in countries where the
6$ overall growth rate target was achieved whereas about 45f of the population of developing countries lived in countries which only achieved an annual growth rate of less than 2fo per annum. Of these twenty four
low performance countries , thirteen , accounting for 6.4$ of the population
of developing countries , actually experienced negative growth in gross domestic product between 1971 and 1973* This contrasts with the most fortunate section of the population of developing countries , 10.4$ of whom lived in the ten countries which increased their annual production by more than 10.0$ during this same period.
These disparities became more acute when diverse demographic factors are taken into account. Thus more than of the population of the developing countries live in countries where per capita income actually declined between 1971 and 1973. Most of the people in this category (about 36$ of the population of developing countries), live in countries in which per capita income fell by 1$ or less, whereas 8.8$ of the population suffered a decline in per capita income of more than 1$. Additionally another 5$ of the population were affected by per capita production falls reflecting special circumstances , including two cases of planned production reductions (Kuwait and Libyan Arab Republic ) , but more typically the consequences of adverse weather conditions (Sahel and India) or political instability (in certain cases notably in the Middle East and South East Asia). On the other hand twelve developing countries, with about 15$ of the total population experinced per capita production increases of over 5.5ft including increases in the range between 10f and 20$.
The main factor behind the overall achievements of developing countries during this period has been trade , and the results achieved in this sector were encouraging. The trade of developing countries increased
by about 8% per annum, exceeding the Jfo target in the Strategy, and the target for developing country imports Was also exceeded.
Yet once again, the overall success in the trade field reflected a diversity of development situations. The gains in trade were made largely
in Western Asia and in the oil producing countries , and least progress
was made in Africa, and South and East Asia. The trade deficits of non-oil exporting developing countries were deteriorating by 1974 and their overall deficit is expected to rise from $ 29 thousand million in 1974 to $41thousandmillionin1975* Thustheoveralltradefiguresdonot properly reflect the variations in the advantages accruing to developing countries as a result of primary material price increases.
Moreover, the overall successes in the field of trade were achieved because of the buoyancy of international commodity markets between 1971 and 1973 and because of the associateddrise in prices for these commodities , rather than as a result of positive trade liberalization measures or the implementation of the International Development Strategy. Indeed prices for commodities from developing countries rose on average by 17°'o per year overall between 1971 and 1973, the greater part of this increase being accounted for by the dramatic increase in oil prices. At the same time, the terms of trade of the non-oil exporting countries deteriorated and are currently expected to benefit the developed countries to the tune of $7*5 thousand million in 1975*
4. Domestic savings
Given overall successes in the field of trade developing countries were on aggregate able to mobilize resources in line with the target of a 20fosavingsratioby198O. IntheAfricanregiontheaveragesavings ration between 1971 and 1973 rose by 0.9/k per annum, at a fractionally greaterratethaninSouthandEastAsia. ThistooktheAfricanaverage above 20^ overall gross domestic savings during that period in comparison with16%forAsia. Savingsratesinthedevelopingcountriesofthe Western Hemisphere continued to decline in terms of past performance in the I960's but still achieved a rate of 10/t in the period in question.
The countries in which there were serious declines in savings ratios nearly all have problems of political instability or special difficulties, mcstlycountries in the Indo China peninsula and Bangladesh.
Another successful sector in overall Terms was that of industrial development where the aggregate target of industrial growth per annum was reached
and marginally exceeded. A<gain development in this sector was not even between developing countries but encouraging progress was made in parts
of Asia - and Africa , with implications for the generation of industrial employment. The very high rates of growth in employed industrial labour force in Brazil , Iran , Republic of Korea and Singapore were offset by very poor performance in most other developing countries , including those with large populations .
Paradoxically the success in economic diversification in terms of
growth of the manufacturing sector did nothing to resolve , and indeed
accentuated , the problem of unemployment in developing countries . The
problem of structural unemployment became more and more serious during
the first half of the decade, as industrial growth failed to absorb labour resources no longer involved in agricultural production or in traditional sectors. Whilst industrial development made a substantial and vital con­ tribution to the growth of gross domestic production it did not contribute
in anything like the same proportion to the creation of employment opportunities. This implied that the model of development chosen by some developing
countries might in some cases be inappropriate, resulting in untenable planning assumptions , especially on the likely absorption of labour by industry from increasingly modernized agriculture.
One conclusion from this failure was that the relationship between agricultural production and manufacturing in developing countries should be a much closer one in which manufacturing and secondary processing activities can grow upon the secure base of a viable rural economy.
Unfortunately , it is in this agricultural sector that there is ample evidence of the most ma,jor failure in the implementation of the International Development Strategy. Agricultural production rose overall only at 2.0^ per annum, that is, at a lower rate than population increase (2.5% per year) and at only half the A,f? rate laid down as the Strategy target. The implied actual decline in per capita food production
in developing countries contributed materially to the world food crisis whilst access to key agricultural inputs became more difficult and expensive. Just as population growth outstripped food production in developing countries, so the creation of employment opportunities in agriculture, as in industry, did not keep pace with the 2.1% overall annual increase in the labour force of developing countries.
The failures in the implementation of the International Development Strategy , and paradoxically some of the successes also , show that the
capacity of developing countries for economic self-reliance on a national
or regional basis is insufficient. Of course shortfalls in the
implementation of the Strategy reflect poor performance on the part of
developed countries in the implementation of Strategy policy measures. Nonetheless developing countries would be in a better position to resolve
more of their own problems if measures for trade cooperation generally and
for regional integration between developing countries could be increased with the
objective of greater economic self-reliance on a national and regional basis. It has been widely recognised that developing countries remain too dependant upon the export of raw materials, which in turn makes them dependant upon
the uncertainties of international commodity markets. The very fact that some developing countries did so well during the boom period of 1971 "to
1973 is illustrative that dependance upon such fluctuations is not an
adequate basis for planning for development. As soon as these fluctuations reflect downturns instead of upturns developing countries are immediately
placed at a massive disadvantage and have to savagely cut the development
plans which appeared practical and necessary before these fluctuations occurred. In fact the necessity for development remains but the practicality diminishes. Emergency measures are clearly inadequate to deal with such fluctuations, it
is the fluctuations themselves which somehow have to be "ironed out" or their negative consequences reduced.
Hence greater emphasis must be given to viable agricultural and industrial development in tandem with each other, to regional and sub- regional integration between developing countries on the lines already generally laid down in the Strategy, to foster a rational and outward-looking expansion of trade. The orientation of policy measures and of development plans towards the concept of economic self-reliance will be one way of attempting to reduce disparities between countries and to reduce inequalities within developing economies.
 The Community's action and achievements in the context of implementation of the measures called for by the Strategy during the first half of the Development Decade
In the context of the mid-term general appraisal of progress made m implementing the Strategy, it is essential from a practical and operational as well as political viewpoint to have available a balance sheet and an analysis of action or achievements falling within the objectives and means defined by the Strategy which the Community and its Member States can include on their credit side in the general field of development aid.
Accordingly, this Annex deals in turn with the principal measures called for by the Strategy.
The Strategy puts international trade at the top of the list of fields of action for which specific national and international measures are recommended to promote the expansion of exports from the developing countries as a factor of development .
1.1 The trend of trade between the Community and the developing countries
An examination of the trade statistics reveals a generally positive trend, in both absolute and relative terms, in trade between the Community and the developing countries to the latter's advantage and confirms the Community's special role in this context as both principal customer and principal supplier.
The enlargement of the Community in 1973, far from weakening this general tendency, has in fact strengthened it.
Although the proportion of products other than agricultural products and energy- materials in the Community's imports from the developing countries is still relatively low (8.5$ in 1973, 7*5$ in 1972) and virtually unchanged since 1970
(8.6$), the role played by the system of generalized preferences in the increase recorded from 1972 to 1973 should however he stressed. Further, the total volume of exports from the developing countries to the Community calls for particular attention; the EEc now takes over one third of these exports, that is as much as the United States and Japan combined (and ten times more than the state–trading countries). In addition, the Community's imports from the developing countries currently represent more than one third of its total imports. This is all the more significant as exports to those countries represent only one quarter or so of the Community's total exports. In terms of absolute value, imports were consistently higher than exports from 1970 to 1973 and the Community's deficit in its trade with the developing countries has in fact tended to grow. Over the same period (except in 1970 when trade was in balance), the EEC's trade with non-member countries as a whole was in surplus.
1.2 The Community's action in the commodities field
During the first half of the Second United Nations Development Decade, the Community continued its policy of international cooperation linked to the problems of
commodities in the same spirit as in the First Development Decade. Without equating in a simplistic way the problems of commodities and the problems of the developing countries in general, the Community has however directed its action principally in accordance with the interests of the producer countries as long as the market situation for the commodities mainly exported by the developing countries has remained precarious.
As a result of the important changes that have taken place in the world economy since 1973, new factors have arisen in the commodities field and problems hitherto unknown have appeared. To the problems of the defence of minimum prices, stable earnings, and development of market outlets and consumption have been added the problems of
stability of supplies in sufficient quantities and at reasonable prices, and indeed even of acocco to tho courceo of raw materials.
In 1975 therefore, the Community's action is directed towards seeking more balanced forms of cooperation against a background of interdependence and convergence of the interests of the developed and developing countries.
The practical steps undertaken "by the Community in the commodities field are related to the three aspects of access to the markets, price policy and diversification of the economic structures of the developing countries.
As regards access to the markets, the Community has continued its work on the dismantling of tariffs and quotas both for commodities and for products processed from them. On the other hand, there has not been any progress in
the specific fields of the elimination of fiscal duties which are still charged on the consumption of certain commodities in particular tropical products, or the adaptation of legislation to promote the use of these products.
In the trade field, the Community has extended technical and financial assistance not only to those developing countries which have special relationships with
it but also to other developing countries to help them in their efforts to develop and diversify their commodity exports.
In the field of price policy, the Community has continued to participate as actively as possible in the management and renewal of the international commodity agreements . The situation here varies from product to product .
As regards the specific case of tin, the current negotiations for a new agreement , in which the Community is participating , is of particular importance . The operating record of the current agreement is fairly modest in respect of both its management and the Community*s participation.
As regards cocoa, the quota and stock-building machinery has not yet been in operationf given the level of prices, "but the financing of the buffer stock is assured.
In the case of other agreements, difficulties have arisen in maintaining their regulatory role in the markets (coffee, sugar); in certain cases, the Community has not been able to participate as such in the renewed agreements, either for fundamental reasons (sugar)or because of the divergent positions
of the Member States (coffee, olive oil).
In addition to these albeit modest efforts in specific sectors, the Community has participated in thework on new methods of approach to international problems and policies in the commodities field advocated by the UB" Trade and Development Board (September 1974)* Likewise the Community approved in February 1975 "the Resolution of the UKCTAD Committee on Commodities on an integrated programme for commodities.
Lastly, in the context of the association agreements, the Community has continued its,geographically limited, action in the field of commodities of interest to a large number of countries, with the aim in particular of diversifying production structures (see below). The system for the stabilization of export earnings set up by the Loml Convention introduces a new and original element.
The record of the first years of the Development Decade is not therefore character! zedl by special initiatives on the part of the Community at international level and is generally speaking - with the exception of the Lom6 Convention - fairly meagre.
This is partly a result of the fact that it has always been difficult in these complex matters connected with the international commodities trade to pursue a Community action or even achieve joint action by the Member States. However, the principal difficulties which would have to be overcome by any meaningful
action in this field involve a series of closely interrelated economic and structural problems ; for not only has the international community been subject for three years now to constraints resulting from the currency crisis and world inflation,
which the European Economic Community has not escaped, out it is also increasingly evident that the problems of commodities, and a fortiori their trade aspects alone, cannot "be isolated from the problems of the diversification of the economies and the industrialization of the developing countries which
are still dependent on commodities alone or from the supply, conversion and employment problems faced "by the developed countries.
1.3 Manufactured and semi-finished products
One of the means envisaged by the International Development Strategy for the attainment of its objectives is the promotion of the expansion and diversification of exports of manufactured and semi-finished products from the developing countries, particularly through the introduction of generalized preferential treatment to help those exports on the markets of the developed countries.
The Community was the first economic area to implement a generalized scheme of preferences - introduced in July 1971# The Community scheme, which has been applied by the enlarged Community since 1 January 1974» is the subject of annual implementing regulations . Thus it is possible , in line with the
dynamic approach advocated by the Strategy, to introduce the modifications necessary to take increasing account of the developing countries*needs and of new possibilities in relation to the commitments resulting from the special
links between the Community and a number of countries. For processed agricultural products, the scheme provides for a reduction of between 20 and 40$ in the Common Customs Tariff for approximately 220 products, but many products enjoy total exemption. Industrial products enter the Community free of duty within the limit of ceilings calculated each year on the basis of the level of escorts achieved by the beneficiary countries during a reference year increased by a percentage (5/0 of exports from non-beneficiary countries based on the
most recent statistical data. A system of maximum amounts for each country is intended to enable every beneficiary country to enjoy preferential access to the Community market. Zero-duty tariff quotas are applied to a limited
number of products considered by the Community as particularly "sensitive". Rules of origin, which have already "been made more flexible since the introduction of the system to take account of the specific problems of areas aiming at regional integration, ensure that the scheme of
preferences does in fact help the beneficiary exporting countries.
An assessment of the importance of the Community scheme for imports into the Community from the developing countries and of the improvements to the system which have been introduced up to 1975 can made, given the lack of precise statistical returns, by looking at the preferential import possibilities opened up between 1974 and 1975*
These possibilities have been increased:
for manufactured and semi-finished industrial products other than textiles: from 340 million u.a. to 2 300 million u.a.;
for processed agricultural products: from 45 million u.a. to 650 million u.a.;
for textile products : from 19 429 t to 71 000 t .
Even if the beneficiary countries have not been able to use the scheme
to the full, mainly because of the time they have needed to be able to
comply with the origin rules and because of the difficulties experienced
by certain countries in familiarizing themselves with the fairly complex procedures of the system\ these figures give an idea of the effort made
by the Community to meet as far as possible the requirements of the developing countries in a dynamic and pragmatic approach within the framework
of an overall programme.
Moreover , in a Resolution of 3 March 1975 » "the Council , conscious of the importance of the preferential scheme as a factor in an effective development cooperation action, expressed its willingness to maintain the Community scheme and to develop it on a continuous and progressive basis.
In view of the difficulties experienced by certain developing countries in the use of this scheme, a number of information seminars have been organized by the Community since 1972 in Asia and Latin America.
1.4 The multilateral trade negotiations
Since work began on the implementation of the International Development Strategy, the multilateral trade negotiations have begun in Geneva with the aim of achieving an increasingly broad expansion and liberalization of world trade and of providing additional advantages for the trade of the developing countries . In these negotiations , the developed countries intend to apply differentiated measures to the developing countries, and do not expect reciprocity for the undertakings they enter into during these negotiations to reduce or eliminate obstacles to trade.
Although it was not possible to begin the multilateral negotiations in accordance with the timetable originally laid down, the Community itself had defined its overall approach to them as early as mid-1973 and was therefore ready to negotiate as from that time, as advocated in the Strategy. For the Community, however, these negotiations - with the developing countries as full partners - which must deal with both tariff and non-tariff barriers, do not constitute an end in themselves but must be situated in a global context of international action to overcome the current world economic crisis .
The Community has signed non-preferential agreements with certain Latin American and Asian countries to develop trade and economic relations between the contracting parties . The agreements with Argentina , Uruguay and Brazil contain in particular specific provisions to facilitate imports into the Community of certain agricultural products of which these countries are major producers . In addition , the agreements provide for the introduction of cooperation in the agricultural sphere and for the purpose of marketing the products enjoying concessions. This cooperation should permit an orderly development of trade which takes account of the economic situation of both parties and avoids serious
disturbanceswhichwouldjeopardizetheexpansionoftrade. Tothis end there is a regular exchange of information between both sides on the problems faced in the sectors in question.
The trade cooperation agreement concluded with India represents a new and original form of the dialogue with the developing countries. Its main objective is the development and diversification of mutual trade. It also provides for the establishment of a Joint Committee to study, define and apply the means of cooperation.
Similar agreements are being negotiated with other developing countries in
Latin America and Asia, for example Mexioo, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan. In the same context mention should be made of the agreement concluded with India in the field of trade in textiles under the international
Multifibre Agreement , and of like agreements being negotiated with a number of Asian developing countries such as Pakistan, South Korea and Hong Kong.
1.6 Trade arrangements under the Lomé Convention
The trade arrangements established by the Lome Convention between the Community and the ACP States substantially take over those of the YaoundeConventionwithnotablechangesasregardsreciprocity. The Community grants free access to its markets for 92% of exports from the ACPStates. Fortheremainder,preferentialtreatmentisgiven. For their part , the ACP States are not obliged to grant the Community more than most-favoured-nation treatment.
These arrangements, which concern a group of countries nearly one half of which are among the least developed, will be subject to a periodical review, the purpose of which will be to permit adaptation of the concessions made to the ACP , particularly in the matter of rules of origin and coverage of agricultural products, to their development effort and their new types of production.
1.7 Financial and technical cooperation and trade promotion
The opening - as regards tariffs and quotas - of the Community market to
exports from the developing countries is an essential condition for a satisfactory development of those countries* trade.
Experience shows, however, that the existence of trade arrangements, though very favourable, is not sufficient to guarantee this development for tariff preferences do not normally constitute in themselves a sufficient incentive to embark on significant new developments.
The Community is therefore endeavouring to supplement "traditional" trade measures, particularly by financial and technical cooperation and trade promotion .
The financial and technical cooperation which the Community is offering to the developing countries under cooperation or association agreements helps towards the creation of new industrial capacity in those countries and consequently towards a certain redistribution of capacity across the world. In doing this, the Community is aware of the ensuing necessity to adapt its own industrial structures. However, adaptation of this kind could not be carried out exclusively by reference to external conditions. Since complex internal economic and social factors are involved, the Community must also take into account internal considerations of social and economic equilibrium, such as those determining the action of the Social Poind. Nevertheless,
this action designed to accompany a process of adjustment of economic structures which is inevitable and necessary in a general development context, necessarily coincides in its effects with the objective laid down in the Strategy of facilitating the expansion of imports from the
The first major programmes undertaken by the Community to promote the developing countries* exports coincide with the start of the Second Development Decade. It was under the Yaounde Convention (1971-75)i which established the Association of 17 African States plus Madagascar and Mauritius with the EEC, that specific aids were introduced for this purpose.
The object of these marketing aids was to improve the structures and working methods of the foreign trade promotion bodies in the Associated States or to promote the creation of such bodies, to facilitate the participation of those countries in fairs and exhibitions, to train trade promotion experts, to undertake market studies and surveys, and so on.
Although the trade promotion activities were limited., until recently, to those developing countries with which it had concluded individual cooperation agreements, the Community, encouraged by the positive results obtained, decided in 1974 "to offer non-associated developing countries the possibility of similar assistance. The Community considers that, in the context of the overall cooperation policy at world level which it has outlined, the implementation of accompanying measures to translate the guidelines of its trade policy - one of the common policies – into practical terms is of prime importance .
Accordingly, the first actions were begun at the end of 1974 and were aimed at both Asian and Latin American countries. Special mention should be made of the numerous seminars on the generalized preferences scheme to help the developing countries to derive the maximum advantage from it. The programmes to help non–associated developing countries, though still modest in scale, will be developed substantially over the next few years.
The Lom£ Convention (signed in February 1975) between the EEC and 46 African, Caribbean and Pacific States took up and emphasized the theme of trade promotion. Particular stress is laid on the improvement of cooperation between firms in the Community and those of its partners and appropriate liaison structures are to be set up to foster this cooperation.
The Strategy calls on the developed countries to support the regional and subregional cooperation initiatives undertaken by the developing countries by
means of financial and technical assistance measures and trade policy measures .
The Community, which is itself engaged in an integration process, has always been inolined and had a particular duty to help the
developing countries to organize or strengthen their economic cooperation at a regional level.
In the agreement which the Community has concluded with groups of developing countries| for instance the Yaounde Conventions, the theme of cooperation "between these countries themselves has assumed an increasingly important role. It is particularly in the field of financial and technical cooperation that practical steps have "been taken in this direction.
In its activity the European Development Fund (EDF) has endeavoured from the outset to follow this guideline. The fact that the States receiving assistance from the EDF are grouped under one and the same international agreement with the Community has considerably facilitated the "regional" approach to the problems.
In recent years, the regional projects have "been concerned with means of communication , energy and training . A number of projects for inter-state highways can be mentioned linking Togo and Upper Volta, Upper Volta and Ghana, Rwanda and Burundi, Chad and Cameroon and Cameroon and Nigeria. As regards improvements to river and maritime communications, the EDF has made a notable contribution towards the transequatorial route ; this involves Congo , Gabon,
Chad and the Central African Republic. In the energy field, an important intei>- state hydroelectric project (involving Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi) has received EDF aid.
In the training field, the EDF has assisted regional training establishments through projects and technical assistance ; examples here are the Regional Centre for training in road maintenance (Togo) and the Regional School for Hydraulics Technicians (Upper Volta). Regional cooperation is also reinforced by the stress which the EDF has laid since 1972, for the purpose of its programme of study grants, on training in Africa. In 1960/61 all EDF scholarship holders did their studies in Europe; in 1973/74, two-thirds of such scholarship holders
(1 757 out of a total of 2 749) received their training in Africa. An appreciable proportion of the scholarship holders who cariy out their studies in Africa study in a country other than their own.
Considerable technical assistance was given to the creation and establishment of the West African Economic Community .
This effort to strengthen regional cooperation is institutionalized in the Lome Convention -which states expressly that the Community will give effective support towards the attainment of the objectives which the 46 African, Caribbean and Pacific States (the ACP) set themselves in the field of regional and inter­ regional cooperation. The partners to the negotiations agreed that approximately 10$ of the total financial resources available under the Convention will be earmarked for the financing of their regional projects. By reserving in this
way an amount of approximately 300 million u.a. out of the amounts to be allocated to the individual countries, the Convention is creating for the first time a real incentive for the Community^ partner states to design and propose for Community financing projects which go beyond their strict national interests .
When in 1974f going beyond the framework of specific cooperation agreements,
the Community defined a number of priority items in its development cooperation
policy at world level, it naturally accorded a special place to the theme of
regional cooperation between developing countries. In a Resolution adopted by
it, the Council agreed that the Community would respond favourably to requests
for assistance from groups of developing countries which are in the process of
creating or consolidating economic cooperation or regional integration machinery, where it considers that it can make an effective contribution .
The Commission has had relations with the Andean Group since 1970 and is following in particular the industrial efforts of this group. A number of Community experts have worked with the experts of the Andean Group Junta in this context and the Junta authorities have been put in contact with industrial circles in the Community which might be interested in developing industrial activities in those countries. In addition, increased cooperation is envisaged with the Association of South-East Asian Nations1 and, for this purpose, a joint study group has been established between the Commission and ASEAN. The terms of reference of this group are to intensify the dialogue and exchange of information in fields of mutual interest
and to search for possible forms of cooperation.
The programme of technical assistance in this field to non-associated developing countries will be extended over the next few years.
Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand.
3» Transfer of resources
While stressing that the developing countries must assume the major responsibility for financing their development, the Strategy also lays down, in the form of precise quantified objectives, the proportions in which the developed countries should transfer resources to the developing countries.
The total transfer (net payments) of public and private resources from the Member
States to the developing countries and multilateral agencies has shown an annual
increase since 1970 of some 13*3%» that is more than twice the rate in the first Λ
Development Decade (1960/62-1970s increase of 6% per annum). In 1974 » the last year for which figures are available, this transfer reached a volume of nearly
$10 000 million, corresponding to 35% of the total effort made by the DAC countries and bringing the total contribution of the Member States to the development expenditure undertaken by the developing countries in the initial years of the Decade to nearly $31 600 million.
Therateofincreaseinofficialdevelopmentassistance (oda)alone-which, makes up the greater part ®f the total transfer - showed an even more marked acceleration
over the same period, increasing from 3«5% per annum during the first Development Decadeto16.9%perannumbetween1970and1974* In1974tthetotalodaofthe Member States reached a volume of $4 700 million (i.e. 42% of the total from the DAC oountries, as against only 37% in 1970), thereby bringing their total oda during the period 1971-74 to nearly $15 200 million.
This analysis does not include Ireland and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which axe not members of the 0B0D,s Development Assistance Committee (DAC) and for which comparable statistics are not available.
All the figures for 1974 are provisional.
3.2 Assessment by reference to the objectives set in the Strategy
Though this trend is impressive at first sight, the overall result in terms
of volume is rather negative if these results are measured against the objectives
3et in the International Strategy for the Second Development Decade.
It is true that, taken together, the Member States have become during the first half of the Decade , the prime source of oda ( since 1972 ) and of total transfers
(since 1974) for the developing countries, thus taking the place long occupied by the United States.
But the expansion rate of their financial contributions – in current dollars – was barely enough to compensate the rise in prices and the effects of parity
variations . In real terms , therefore , the growth rate of oda has gone down to about 1.5% per annum, while total transfers are even declining by about 1% annually .
Furthermore, the quantitative objectives set by the Strategy for total transfers (at least 1% of GENP from 1972) and oda (a minimum of 0.7% of GNP to be reached
by 1975 at the latest), which have since been accepted by all the Member States – the principle if not the deadlines - are far from being achieved, for only
three Member States have attained and maintained between 1971 and 1974 total transfers equivalent to 1% or more of their GNP. The others, even those which lad reached this objective in the preceding years , have scarcely increased their relative effort since 1970 or have even failed to achieve the target. Taken as
a whole, the Member States reached only 0.87% of their combined GNP in 1974» a lower figure than for 1970 (0.98%) and even below the level recorded at the beginning of the sixties (1.21%).
The oda situation is even worse. Here the Member States together are - with C.41% of GNP - even further from the target than in the field of total transfers (success rate of barely 59%)• No progress has been recorded since 1970 and,
compared with the beginning of the last Development Decade, their oda efforts have declined distinctly (1960-62: 0.63% of GNP). The picture is no better
at the level of the individual countries; no Member State attained the objective between 1971 and 1974* the only one to come near it regularly is Denmark, while the others either are making little progress - and very irregular at that - or have even fallen below the level reached on the eve of the Second Decade .
If we add to this unfavourable record that the other members of the Development Assistance Committee are even farther from the objectives, as shown by the overall figures for the seventeen countries (0.83% for total transfers and 0.33% for oda in 1974)» it seems obvious that the slow progress made by the poorest developing countries in particular, which are more dependent than others on external aid for their investments, is largely a result of the shortcomings of the industrialized countries with regard to total financial contributions and especially oda.
3.3 Assessment of the trend of aid terms and conditions
When, on the other hand, we look at the terms and conditions of resource transfers, the record for the first few years of the Second Development Decade is seen to
be distinctly better. The share of oda – which is by definition granted on
liberal terms - in the total transfers of the Member States, has risen from 42%
in 1970 to 47•5% in 1974* Within oda itself the proportion of grants has increased (64% in 1970 and 69.5% in 1973 )» while loan terms have improved generally. Consequently the total grant element2 of their oda has risen from 82.1% in 1970 to 87.5% in 1973» which is even in excess of the amount laid down in the DAC Recommendation on aid terms (84%). The results achieved here by individual Member States are also relatively good, although less so than for the Member States as a group. In 1971 only four Member States had. achieved,
or nearly, the aims set by the DAC Recommendation, but in 1972 five had done so and in 1973 six .
The 1974 figures on aid terms are not yet available. 2Criterion generally used in measuring the quality of aid.
Progress has also been made by the Member States in untying aid. It is
true to say that all efforts to reach a general agreement on the untying
of oda loams have failed up to now, at both DAC and Community level. Nevertheless the DAC members have agreed to untie their contributions to multilateral organizations and some, including four Member States, have reached an agreement to untie, as from 1975* a.t least oda loans to developing countries. Further attempts have been made to increase the proportion of untied aid in total oda contributions, so that from now on it will be up to between 40$ and 60% of
most Member States' oda. Some of them are below this average because their programmes generally include a higher proportion of technical assistance ,
which by nature is tied.
Finally we should add that, because in particular of the growing contributions to the European Development Fund (EDF) and to the Community budget, the volume of oda channelled by the Member States via multilateral organizations has increased appreciably, exceeding 23% in 1973» nearly 9% of which as Community aid .
3.4 Evolution and nature of the Community component of total financial aid
The aid provided by Member States via the Community has undergone a number of important changes since the beginning of the Second Development Decade.
First and foremost, the second Yaounde Convention came into force involving, in addition to certain improvements in the quality of financial cooperation with the Associated States, a further increase in the volume of Community aid. From800millionu.a.underYaoundeIitwasputupforthefour-year period from 1971 "to 1974 to 1 000 million u.a., of which 900 million u.a. under the third EDF and 100 million u.a. from the European Investment Bank's (EIB)ownresources. Thissumwassubsequentlyincreasedby5millionu.a.
in the form of grants for Mauritius, which joined the Convention in 1973-
Secondly, the Community food aid programme, which since 1968 has been added to the Community's activity in favour of developing countries, has grown considerably both in volume and the range of products supplied as well as the number of recipient countries.
These three traditional sources of Community aid (EDF, EIB, food aid) were joined in 1974 by some new forms of assistance to the Third World, namely the special aid for the Sahel, the Community contribution to the United
Nations emergency programme to help the most seriously affected (msa) countries and a technical assistance programme for non-associated developing countries covering trade promotion and regional integration.
The special action for the Sahel, decided on by the Community on the initiative of the European Parliament, consists of a total of 35.6 million u.a. financed out of the Community budget, plus 5 million u.a. to cover certain transport costs already included in the food aid programme. This special aid was granted in addition to the financial and food aid given by the Community to the
Sahel countries (including Ethiopia) seriously affected by drought.
The United Nations emergency programme sprang from an initiative taken by
the Community at the Sixth Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly to enable the countries most seriously affected by the world price movements recorded in 1973/74 "to survive. The Community's contribution to this programme has acted as a driving force. It totals $292 million and includes 42 million in the form of food aid. The largest share (about 70%) of this aid was granted to non-associated developing countries, mainly in Asia.
The technical assistance programme is "based on two Resolutions adopted by the Council in July 1974 as part of Community efforts to set up gradually an overall development cooperation policy on a world scale. This programme had its modest beginnings in 1974 with the sum of 700 000 u.a. and is due to increase in the future (budget appropriations: 85O 000 u.a. for 1975, 1 300 000 u.a. for 1976).
The latter two programmes - the first being aimed mainly and the second exclusively at non-associated developing countries – constitute the first
major steps taken by the Community to provide financial and technical aid outside the framework of the Associations. They are thus proof of the Community^ will to extend its cooperation programme in the world and to make it a truly global policy.
The developments mentioned above have of course been reflected in the trend of Community aid during the first few years of the Development Decade. Prom
1970 to 1974 net Community payments increased from $222 million to about
^607 million, representing an annual growth rate of almost 29% (22% taking
into account the depreciation of the dollar in relation to the unit of account). This means that in 1974 for the first time net payments were nearly as great
as those of the International Development Association (IDA) and even of the World Bank ($608 million and ^613 million respectively in 1973)•
The main reason for this growth of Community aid is the expansion of the food aid programme. Payments here have increased more than sixfold during the period 1971 to 1974s from 39 million in 1970 to ^261 million in 1974-
Even allowing for the effect of depreciation of the dollar and of the sharp increase in the world prices of the foodstuffs delivered, the total growth of the Community programme is still high (at least 2C$ annually).
The volume of net payments under the three EDFs has grown more slowly, increasing from ^145 million in 1970 to ^213 million in 1974 (up 10% per annum in dollars and up 4*2% per annum in units of account). Disbursements recorded "by the EIB stood at about ^30 million in 1971/72 rising to over ^45 million in 1973 and 1974*
To these figures may "be added the first disbursements under the special Sahel aid scheme (^29.2 million) and under the United Nations emergency programme
(^58«8 million). The technical assistance for trade promotion and regional integration is not yet reflected in the 1974 figures since the first payments were not made until early 1975•
Community aid is still being granted on particularly favourable terms. With the exception of EIB ordinary loans, all loans are in the form of oda and the grant element of this aid varies between 90% and nearly 100% (DAC norm: 84$) for most recipient countries; it is even higher for the least developed countries (98/0 to 100%, the norm being 90%).
Since the scale of food aid is growing, an increasing proportion of aid from the Community is going to non-associated developing countries. The share given to those countries, most of which are in Asia, has grown from 18% in 1970 to 30% in 1973 and – because of the combined effect of food aid and the Community^ contribution to the emergency programme – to 37% in 1974«
As far as the choice of sectors to be aided; the EDF has been concentrating since the start of the Development Decade on rural development, industrialisation, transport and communications and on the social sector. At the beginning of 1975» funds earmarked by the third EDF for rural production accounted for
29.6/6 of the total allocations decided on, industrialization in the AASM for
7*2$ (as against 5**$ under the second EDF and only 0.7$ under the first
EDF), transportsand communications for 37•5^ and the social sector, where education and training costs have gone up considerably since the second
Increased attention has also been paid to schemes to promote exports and tourism.
As regards rural development , the Commission has laid stress on food crops and the processing of local products. Besides this, it has taken care that the projects financed are designed la such a way that more and more the results are adjusted to the needs and capacities of the peasant. With
this in mind the EDF has used more and more frequently the system of combining a nucleus plantation, run on industrial lines, with nearby village plantations which rely upon it for support (e.g., tea in Burundi, palms in Ivory Coast).
One of the main motives for the EDF's agricultural and industrialization schemes has long been the diversification of the economies of the AASM. This line of action has been more marked since 1971 although the TaoundS Convention II no longer provided a special allocation for this category of aid .
The diversification projects financed between 1971 and 1974 fall into two main types. The first consists of introducing new forms of agriculture (e.g., rice growing and stock farming in Ivory Coast, whose economy is highly dependent
on coffee, cocoa and wood exports). The second form of diversification is
aimed at setting up plants for the local industrial processing of products ,
for example oil mills, textile factories, shelling plant, cashew nut factories, tea factories, sugar refineries.
Sometimes it has "been possible to fulfil these two aims with a single project such as an agro-industrial complex comprising a plantation and the factory for processing the products (agro–industrial sugar cane project in Upper Volta).
In other cases, efforts to develop local products have meant carrying out research and experiments. In 1971» for instance, a project was launched in Mali to develop the fishing industry and this included an experiment on the protection of fish "by the removal of insects.
Besides these projects "based on the use of local products, a start has been made on industrial diversification projects for example by the Community's commitment to finance studies for Dakarmarine scheme (a ship repair yard in Dakar) in cooperation with other aid sources.
Finally, there is another field of diversification which is beginning to be explored: tourism. A study carried out in Mali, for example, produced
very positive conclusions which influenced the decision taken in 1971 to build a new airport at Bamako, thus fulfilling one of the preconditions for the development of the tourist industry. Other examples are the interest rate subsidy granted for the construction of a hotel in Libreville , a subsidy for equipping national parks in Chad and another to service the Nouakchott tourist complex, etc.
In the recent past , in spite of the difficulties brought about by the energy crisis , the Community has seen to it that no measures are taken to adjust the balances of payments which would result in a reduction of aid to developing countries. The Community intends to continue pursuing this line of policy.
With the same aim in mind the Commission has subscribed to the decision in principle to "broaden the scope of the "oil facilities" in the International
Monetary Fund and to open a special account to reduce the interest rate "burden of the most seriously affected countries. Several Member States of the Community have made contributions as have some OPEC countries.
A welcome must also "be given to the start made by the Joint Ministerial
Committee within the Bank on the transfer
framework of the International Monetary Fund and the of real resources to developing countries.
of l east developed countries
The problems and particular needs of the least developed countries are receiving special attention and treatment geared to them in all the spheres of Community cooperation policy. This special and constant attention is in line with that underlying the Strategy, which expressly recommends additional and special measures in favour of these countries, and is expressed in practical terms in the Community's activities at world and regional level.
4.1 . In the generalized system of preferences
Here the Community has sought means to enable the least advanced countries to overcome the handicap – as regards their ability to compete – of their weaker economic status and their particularly low level of diversification as to exportable products and resources.
To this end the conditions of the Community's system of generalized preferences have, within the limits of the annual ceilings applicable to the duty-free entry of industrial products, allowed amounts to be fixed according to country, hence ensuring access for everyone.
4.2 In the multilateral trade negotiations
In the Tokyo Declaration the principles laid down by the Strategy concerning the treatment to be accorded to the least developed among the developing countries are the subject of a special provision that stresses "the need
to ensure that these countries receive special treatment in the context of any general or specific measures taken in favour of the developing countries during the negotiations".
4.3 In EPF and food aid schemes
The EDF has always paid special attention to the least developed countries among the AASM (numbering eight out of the twenty–five listed by the United Nations), so as to help them catch up in their development.
The volume of aid granted to these countries under the third EDF was considerably more than in previous years, increasing from 172 million u.a.
under the first EDF to 224 million u.a. under the second and to nearly
304 million u.a. under the third EDF . These countries have also received
preferentialtreatmentintheformofaidonveryliberalterms. Underthe third EDF nearly all projects in the least developed AASM have been financed
by grants with the exception of two very "soft" loans. The-total grant element in aid given to these countries has therefore always been very high (see above).
The EDF has also helped these countries to increase their external aid capacity to absorb by giving them a higher proportion of technical assistance loans than to the other countries so that studies can be undertaken and
experts sent to prepare their dossiers and train their staff for the planning, execution, operation and maintenance of development projects.
Commitments, not including budgetary aid for the Sahel.
In applying aid the EDF has tried, to solve the worst handicaps holding
back these countries: land-locked situations (hence the inter-State highways for Upper Volta and Mali, for example), dependence on single crops (hence
the diversification projects such as tea plantations in Burundi), very serious financial situations (hence research into possible productive projects in Dahomey), and so on.
The poorest countries have also received special attention under the Community food aid programme as an increasing share of such aid has been
allocated to them . In the 1975 programme , for example , the MSA countries have been allotted 83% of the aid up to now.
5. Expansion and diversification of production
The Strategy views technical and financial aid as important and necessary factors to complement and support the developing countries' efforts to expand and diversify their production.
The Community's development activity as a whole clearly contains many elements which are conducive directly or indirectly to the expansion and diversification of production in developing countries.
Under this specific heading can be placed the measures taken by the Community - and already described above - in the fields of:
(a) trade policy , for instance the generalized system of preferences ;
(b) technical assistance and trade promotion measures; and above all
(c) EDF and EIB aid in the various associations.
 'Time-table of meetings for the mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy and the Seventh
Special Session of the General Assembly
Review and appraisal
2May–6June HewYork Review and appraisal Committee
(ECOSOC subsidiary committee)
2 July – 1 August Geneva 39th meeting of ECOSOC
16 September to end Secember
30th Ordinary Session of the General Assembly
Preparatory committee for the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly
Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly
1. Foundations for the establishment of the new international economic order were laid through the adoption by the General Assembly of the Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order and Programme of Action at its sixth special session and of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States
at its regular twenty-ninth session. This should be the starting point for the preparation of th$ next special session of the General Assembly devoted to development and international economic co-operation.
2. The fact that such foundations already exist should permit the special session of the General Assembly devoted to development and international economic co-operation to concentrate on the consideration of those problems which, within the above framework, deserve priority because of their pressing nature.
3. With that goal in mind, the Group of 77 developing countries has agreed on this very restricted and selective list of such areas and questions , to be used for preliminary contacts between the representatives of the Group of 77 and those of the other groups :
Regulation of the raw material and commodity market through integrated approach ;
Indexation of the prices of commodity and raw material exports from
countries to the prices of their imports from developed
Access to markets of developed countries for raw materials , commodities , manufactures and semi-manufactures of developing countries .
Transfer of real resources for financing the development of developing countries and international monetary reform :
Transfer of real resources for financing the development of developing countries :
Additional development financing for developing countries , including arrangements to expand the flow of official development assistance to provide automatic mechanisms for the transfer of real resources ;
Adequate response to the United Nations Special Fund ;
Furthering co-operation through investment of financial resources and supply of technology and equipment to developing countries by developed countries and by developing countries in a position to do so;
Reform of the international monetary system, so as to meet the development requirements of the developing countries :
Link between special drawing rights creation and development financing;
Full and effective participation of developing countries in decision- making .
Science and technology:
Measures and programmes designed to expand the capability of developing countries to apply science and technology to development .
Decisions on industrialization of the Lima Conference.
Restructuring of the economic and social sectors of the United Nations system .
/To be dealt with at a later stage/
 Trekant s amarbe .ide
– 2. juli – 1. august GENEVE ECOSOC's 59. session
Seventh Special Session of the UN General Assembly and mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy for the Second UN Development Decade
International economic cooperation is assuming growing importance in the work of.theUnitedNationsagencies. FollowingtheSixthSpecialSessionofthe General Assembly in April 1974t which led to a "Declaration** and a "Programme of Action", the new special session (1-12 September 1975) on development and international economic cooperation must in particular give an impetus to the International Development Strategy for the Second Decade, which is at presentundergoingitsmid-termreview. ThePreparatoryCommitteeforthe Seventh Special Session will hold its second meeting from 16 to 27 June.
In this contert the Community and the Member States can and must play a constructiveandactiverole; however,theywillbeabletoplaythis role and receive an adequate hearing only if they show a united front. Community action should be based on a spirit of dialogue and conciliation and aim to provide a real consensus. As to the substance, the Development Strategy should be adapted to take account of changes which have occurred since the beginning of the Decade and in the light of the new relations of strengthprevailingintheworld. TheCommunity^contributionshouldbe concerned with a balanced range of subjects answering the major concerns of the developing countries and providing real chances of progress.
For raw materials, the Commission confines itself to repeating the proposals contained in its Communication to the Council of 22 May 1975*
On the matter of international trade it is first of all proposed to state ?
that the Community is willing, to maintain and improve its generalized system ofpreferences. Withregardtothemultilateraltradenegotiationsthe
Community should confirm that it intends to take into consideration the interests of
 the developing countries, in line with the directives approved by the Council. Xoreovert measures affecting import arrangements should be accompanied by action to promote trade relations*
On the subject of industrial cooperation and the transfer of technology, the Community and its Member States should identify themselves more clearly with the industrial results proper of the Lima Conference (UHIDO). A special effort must be made to help firms play a part in industrial cooperation in such a way as to meet the developing countries'- interests* To this end, the Community and the Member States should indicate their will to cooperate with the governments of developing countries, to step up information, promotion and cooperation activities, to encourage investment and other outside help, to iaprove the conditions for the transfer of technology, while .insisting
on the need for a favourable climate for foreign firms* The Community mast be aware of the consequences which the redeployment of certain industries to developing countries will have for its internal structures*
With regard to the transfer of real resources it is suggested that the official development assistance objective be confirmed, a geographical
reorientation of aid envisaged, special priority given to food problems, particular attention paid to the problem of indebtedness and triangular cooperation be developed* Lastly, it is proposed that constructive attitudes be adopted at the international financial institutions as regards the "third window**, the "oil facility", the link between SDRs and development aid, and modification of IMF quotas*
Reunions officieuses
Seventh Special Session of the UN General Assembly and mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy for the Second UN Development Decade
Seventh Special Session of the UN General Assembly and. mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy for the Second UN Development Decade
The purpose of this Cor mnieation is to rubmit to the Council the information and factors of assessment necessary for participation by the Community in the above exerciso and, more particularly, the Commission's recommendations for the purpose of defining the Community contribution to the Seventh Special Session of the United Fations General Assembly.
Page Antecedents and "background 3
Contributions from the Community 12
Raw materials 13 International trade 15 Industrial cooperation and transfer of technology 18 Transfer of financial resources and international
monetary system 25
Progress of the developing countries daring the first half of the Second Development Decade with particular reference to the goals and objectives of the International Development Strategy
She Community^ action and achievements in the context of implementation of the Strategy*
AnnexITT: Timetableofmeetings(ReviewandAppraisaland Seventh Special Session)*
Provisional list of areas and concrete questions of international economic cooperation approved by the Group of 77
in connection with the preparations for
the Special Session of the General Assembly*
Introduction: Antecedents and background
1. The growing importance of economic cooperation at international level and the increased interest shown in such matters by the United Nations have over the past few years had a clear-cut effect on the activities
of the United Nations organs. The tendency to incorporate these activities into increasingly structured programmes is more and more marked .
The first United Nations Development Decade covered the sixties. It
was drawn up in relatively vague terms and included only two precise
quantitative objectives, concerning the transfer of resources to developing
countries and the average growth rate of the national product of those countries .
The International Development Strategy was adopted "by a consensus , with certain reservations, on 24 October 1970 (Resolution No 2626 (XXV)). It lays down a programme for the Second Decade , takes up again and reinforces the same growth objectives, supplements them by other objectives and endeavours also to assess the qualitative changes on the way towards integrated economic and social progress. In addition, appropriate arrangements were adopted for reviewing regularly the implementation of this Strategy in order to
assess progress, determine inadequacies and their causes and recommend,
where necessary, supplementary policies and aims.
This review and general appraisal of progress achieved is carried out by EC0S0C every two years.
The first appraisal by the General Assembly took plaoe at its 28th Ordinary Session in 1973 (Resolution No 3176 (XXVIII)).
The purpose of the seoond appraisal, which is to be undertaken now, is to review the situation half-way through the Deoade.
2. Becauseoftheeconomiccrisiswhiohbrokeoutattheendof1973a special session of the General Assembly, the sixth of its kind, was held in
New York in April 1974 on the initiative of the President of Algeria, Mr Boumedienne.
Its immediate aim was to examine the problems of raw materials from the
point of view of development and in particular their influence on the
situation of the countries most seriously affected "by the crisis. The
main object of its work, nevertheless, was to assess the existing economic orderanddefinetherulesfora^NewInternationalEconomicOrder''' These
rules are defined in general terms in a "Declaration" (Resolution No 3202 (S-Vl)) and expressed in more specific form in a "Programme of Action" (Resolution No 3202 (3-Vl)).
In the eyes of the developing countries, all United Nations activities in the economic field must henceforth follow the lines of this Declaration aid
Programme of Action so that , as all the provisions contained in them are
progressively implemented, a"new international economic order can replace the
old relations based on strength. The Programme of Action specifies, for example , that it complements and strengthens the goals and objectives of the International Development Strategy and that the latter will have to be adapted
in order to align it on the Declaration on the Establishment of a New Internati
Economic Order"and the Programme of Action.'
It should be noted that although the Declaration and Programme of Action vere formally adopted by a consensus, they nevertheless include a large number of provisions which were not acceptable to most developed countries. The developing countries* refusal to take account of the reservations expressed on this occasion end the resulting ambiguity have made it more difficult to resort subsequently to the consensus procedure.
At its 28th Session in 1973 (Resolution No 3172 (XXVIIl)), the General
Assembly decided to devote a special session to development said international
economic cooperation with a view to examining the main themes and problems
connected vrith the development process, identifying and adopting the necessary
changes in the structures and organs of the United Nations and studying the
transformations which should be undertaken in the general configuration of international economic relations.
This special session will take place from 1 to 12 September 1975. It v;ill be prepared by a Preparatory Committee which, after a brief session on
organizational mrtters (March 1975) villi meet from 16 to 27 June in order to finalise a prper recapitulating the specific recommendations ixi the light of which the General Assembly.will at its special session be able to give a bcorrt to the "Development Strategy on the basis of objectives and supporting policies intended to ensure that they are carried out in accordance with a strict timetable .
In this context , the result 3 of the V'orld Food Conference and the Second
General UNIDO Conference must not be forgotten since they represent achievements vhich the work of the U1T will have to take into account . This also applies to the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States adopted at the last Ordinary Session of the General Assembly . This Charter , however , includes a relatively large number of articles which most developed countries, particularly the
Member States of the Community, have not been able to accept in their present
wording. Finally , the Fourth UJT Conference on Trade and Development , to be held next year in Nairobi, will represent a major new element among those determining ths direction to be taken by the Seventh Special Session.
5. On the sane lines, the conclusions of the meeting of the OECD Council, which took place at ministerial level on 28 and 29 May 1975» should be mentioned; following that meeting the Ministers expressed their firm determination to pursue the dialogue with developing oountries in all appropriate forums, particularly at
the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly* They also deoided that the OECD should examine the eoonomio relatione between its member oountries and
developing oountries with a view to identifying new and oonetruotive avenues whioh may be explored regarding oertain fundamental questions and to giving renewed support and impetus to the negotiations oonduoted elsewhere.
6. The mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy, the action to be taken following the Sixth Special Session of the General Assembly on the establishment of a*New International Economic Order*and the
decisions to be taken at the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly are inseparably linked.
Although strictly speaking these are three distinct exercises they nevertheless all directly concern economic cooperation for development. This is why the Commission considers that it must deal with the mid-decade review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy and the preparation for the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly at the same time. The deadlines which
the Member States and the Community will have to meet are set out in Annex III.
Part One t Community 's general approach
1. In the exercise which will consist of drawing conclusions from the successes and failures and in particular from the new international context
in order to redefine tomorrow 's international economic relations , the Community and its Member States have a constructive contribution, perhaps a decisive one, to make.
Firstly, the Community is now expected to play an active role. Over the
past two years the Community's role in the international organizations, particularly in the United Nations, has developed considerably because of the increased attention given to development cooperation by the United Nations and because of the widening of the Community's activities in this field. Moreover this trend has been confirmed by the granting to the Community of observer
status in the General Assembly.
Secondly, to participate constructively in seeking a new type of international e.conomic relations is in keeping with the Community's interests. Given
that for both its sources of supply and its outlets the Community depends more than other industrialized countries on the existence of a propitious climate in relations between developing countries and developed countries it has no alternative but to take an active part in the debate whose outcome will determine the quality of those relations.
2. This active role can be effectively played by the Community and its Member States only if they present a united front at the coming international meetings.
To the fact that the topics to be dealt with fall largely within the Community's jurisdiction or are of special interest to the common market and must therefore be the subject of common positions mist be added a major political reason: it is only by concerting their positions and presenting
common views "that the Member States and the Community will carry sufficient weight and therefore have a real chance of influencing the outcome of the work. If there is a lesson to be drawn from recent experiencessuch as the UNIDO Conference in Lima, this is it .
It must he recognized that although not a little progress has "been made as to Community cohesion the latter has often failed to withstand the final test of the vote on resolutions "by the United Nations organs. Now - rightly or wrongly - it is mainly "by the unity of lack of it shown "by the Member States in the final vote that Community cohesion is judged.
The Commission therefore considers that it is vital for common positions to
be defined on all the matters dealt with and for those positions to be observed by the Member States throughout the course of the work, especially when it
comes to a vote. A Community whose cohesion third countries are used to seeing disintegrate at the final stage of international meetings cannot in the long
run maintain, let alone increase, its standing and influence.
The objective of defining common positions must of course be to increase and improve the contributions made by cooperation as a whole. The tendency, therefore , must be to uprate common positions , not so to align different positions on the lowest level in terms of cooperation.
3. The spirit underlying Community action must be that of dialogue and conciliation .
The special situation of interdependence between the Community and the developing countries must quite naturally lead the Community to do everything possible to reduce the climate of confrontation which has marked the United Nations since
the Sixth Special Session of the General Assembly. Within the political spectrum of the United Nations the Community is, moreover, particularly well placed to play the role of moderator and to reduce antagonism. Furthermore, the Community has shown through many recent initiatives, both in the regional and in the world aspects of its cooperation policy, that it is opting clearly for cooperation as opposed to confrontation.
On their side, according to information obtained recently, the developing countries seem to want to restore a climate which is more favourable to
international cooperation. It should be noted that in the work which has
so far been carried out in preparation for the Seventh Special Session they | seem to have shown a spirit of moderation and greater realism than in the past.
The situation therefore seems rather favourable for a breakthrough in cooperation in the strict sense of the word. The Community could here play the part of the driving force behind western coordination and of mediator vis-a-vis developing countries .
4. The above shows that the Community will have to make a serious effort to reach a consensus by negotiating mutually acceptable compromises.
This search for a consensus as to substance must not, however, be interpreted as an acceptance in advance and at any price of a consensus procedure, in
other words of the adoption of the conclusions without a vote. The partners | in the international debate must agree to aim at clarity in their work and
to find formulae which do not hide the areas of disagreement but indeed delimit them clearly so that they can be tackled all the more effectively .
5. With regard to the approach to be adopted as to substance, the Commission considers that the aim should be to bring up to date the International Strategy for the Second Development Decade by adapting it to the new situation and adopting a fresh approach by reference to the main shortfalls noted.
In adopting this kind of initiative} the Community and its Member States will be helping not only to strengthen the Strategy as an overall instrument of cooperation, "but also to build a more equitable international economic order.
It will not be sufficient for the Community's contribution to rest simply on an analysis of the results achieved during the first half of the Development Decade and to take account of the present situation of economic crisis; it must also be guided by acceptance of the fact that there is a new relationship of strength now determining relations between developing and developed countries t which originates inandisexpressedbythedramaticincreaseinthepriceofoil. Thisnew relationship has been demonstrated subsequently by growing solidarity within the Group of 77•
It is obvious – as the 77 seem to acknowledge – that the updating must be limited tosubjectsandareasinwhichrealprogressmayreasonablybeexpected. The Community should therefore forestall any attempt to recast the Strategy completely on the basis of the extreme demands of the developing countries expressed in the "Charter". ThiswillbealltheeasierastheCommunitywillshowitselftobe constructive and ready to compromise where possible.
In thus opting for the principle of a selective approach – the choice of subjects being dependent on what appears realistic and feasible - the Commission felt it
must also draw attention to the necessity of striking a reasonable balance betweenthevarioussubjects. Forrecentexperienceshowsthatintheviewofthe developing oountries the various subjeots for oooperation are closely interconnected: from the point of view of their negotiating power, oil serves as a lever for
raw materials! the latter serving as a lever for industrial cooperation, etc. Henoe the phenomenon of "globalization" of the debate on international cooperation.
In these circumstances, it would not "be realistic to think that by defining a constructive position on a single subject , however important , for instance raw materials , the Community is responding adequately to its partners * expectations .
The Commission therefore proposes that the Community adopt a "balanced selectivity" approach, which means that the Community would be prepared to tackle
constructively the most important subjects which, in its partners * eyes, are so closely interconnected that virtually parallel progress is required.
Where immediate progress does not appear possible, the problems should at least be identified and a timetable laid down for seeking solutions in the
near future. Since the Seventh Special Session and the ordinary session
to follow it will be merely one stage in an on-going process, the impetus ®
which they give to future work will be almost as important as the immediate results .
6. As regards specific subjects, the 77» in a document of 1 May 1975 (Annex IV), drew up a provisional list of the specific areas and questions which they
would like to see tackled during the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly.
This list, which they describe as very limited and selective, actually contains a great many problems. Hie Commission considers, however, that in order to show a conciliatory spirit the Community could accept that this list, without
prejudging the substance of the problems referred to in it, be adopted as _
a working hypothesis with a view to the drawing up of the agenda by the Preparatory Committee (2nd session) when it meets in Hew York from
16 to 27 June 1975.
7 . The review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy , and the parallel process of preparing and convening the Seventh Special Session
of the General Assembly, will culminate in the Thirtieth Ordinary Session of the General Assembly, which will provide a synthesis in the resolutions it adopts. The Community cannot, however, lose si^it of the psychological importance attached "by the developing countries to the Seventh Special Session. For this reason, the Commission considers that the most important Community contributions to the strengthening of international economic cooperation will have to be presented at that special session.
Part Two : Contributions from the Community
The initiatives taken recently at Community level regarding development cooperation have strongly emphasized the need for an approach which is comprehensive, but geared to the various specific problems to be resolved in certain types of situation. This was the idea expressed
in the Commission Communication to the Council of 5 November 1974 on development aid (the "Fresco"); this approach has now been enshrined in exemplary fashion in the Lom£ Convention*
Although, for practical reasons the Commission will in what follows below
be dealing successively with raw materials , international trade , industrial cooperation, the transfer of technology and the transfer of real resources, it would, however, like to stress two points:
1. The various chapters are interconnected in that the various instruments of cooperation complement one another or are even mutually inter­ dependent ;
2. The various fields of cooperation are of differing interest to the various categories of developing countries because of their specific problems .
In what it proposes here, the Commission has taken account of the difficulties which the Community's economy is currently passing through. It is also relying on the effect which any action proposed by the Community can have of carrying along with it the international community.
The Commission has already -transmitted a Communication to the Council on raw materials on 22 May 1975* The Community contribution at the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly could therefore include the main points of this Communication, which the Commission has outlined "below .
The Community must define an overall approach with a view to adopting
a clear and constructive policy towards the developing countries*
claims . This approach could "be based on seeking the following objectives : fair and remunerative prices without excessive fluctuations providing
a long-term balance between production and consumption; the diversification of production and the development of the processing
of raw materials in developing countries; the stability of developing countries * export earnings ; special treatment for the poorest countries ; stability of the consumer countries * raw materials supplies .
This approach could be implemented in the following ways: 1. Trade cooperation
Measures aimed at the elimination of the tariff and non-tariff
barriers which hinder access to the markets of the industrialized
countries, particular attention being given to the problem of the
protection of the added value of the products of first-stage processing .
Promotion of development and processing in situ via a contractual framework aimed at encouraging activity by business firms and the transfer of technology.
3 . Production and supplies
Search for appropriate financial mechanisms.
4 . Information and consultation
Improvement of exchanges of information on the supply and demand situation.
5. Measures to limit excessive price fluctuations
Product-by-product examination of the problems, "based on the diversity of the situations, with special attention being paid to products exported mainly by the developing countries, in particular by means of international product agreements which may include stockpiling measures .
6 . Stabilization of export earnings
International financing with the participation of all countries which have adequate resources available. The procedure for implementing this measure should be studied from the angle of the beneficiary countries and the products concerned. Such action would be in addition to the aid currently granted to developing countries.
The commercial policy field is one of the sectors in which the Community can make a positive contribution to the work of the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly. Generally speaking, the developing countries* desiderata are especially concentrated on the principle of access to markets; freer access should progressively be given to imports of raw materials ,
and industrial semi-manufactures and manufactures from developing countries.
In this field the Community can adopt a positive attitude by basing itself on the one hand on measures to be taken under the multilateral GATT
negotiations, and on the other hand, on application of the generalized system of preferences.
1 . Generalized tariff preferences
In accordance with the Resolution adopted by the Council on 3 March 1975 "the Community is able to reaffirm its desire to maintain and improve its generalized scheme of preferences.
With regard to maintaining the scheme, the Community can state that it considers it necessary for the preferences scheme to be extended beyond 1980. This positive attitude may be reinforced by action to convince other donor countries also to consider the possibility of extending their scheme beyond that date.
With regard to improvement of the scheme three broad lines m&y be taken into consideration :
(a) increasedutilizationofthepresentCommunityscheme,particularlyby means of measures aimed at simplifying it;
(c) improvementandappropriateadjustmentoftheCommunityschemeinthe light of the developing countries* expansion potential and the Community's economic potential.
According to the avowed intention of the Council such improvement will have to take particular account of the interests of the least developed countries.
The directives approved "by the Council on 11 February 1975 already constitute a complete series of lines of action, vis-S»-vis "both developed and developing countries, regarding the multilateral trade negotiations tinder GATT which opened officially in September 1973 in Tokyo but did not actually start until February 1975* It is therefore not so much a matter of adding to these guidelines as replacing them, if necessary, with a view to trade cooperation in this field. While emphasizing that this is a specific case of trade
negotiations based on the principle of reciprocity of concessions and the £ balancing of mutual advantages the Community can confirm the intention already
expressed in the Tokyo Declaration to take particular account of the developing countries* interests by considering their needs and their specific economic situations .
Taking into consideration developing countries * interests should in particular mean :
(a) priority treatment (tariff and nonr-tariff) for tropical products;
(b) a common search for appropriate tariff solutions, on the basis of general
formula to emerge from the negotiations, aimed at adapting the extent of
tariff reductions or the phasing of such reductions and the detailed rules £ for applying any solutions regarding non-tariff barriers to the specific
needs of the developing countries;
(c) a special effort to bring about, at tariff level, a significant reduction in
the protection of value added for products of first-stage processing, for
instance each time that the latter results in a high rate of effective protection;
(d) taking into account developing countries* interests and problems by means of food aid measures and the beneficial effects of the stabilization of markets.
3. Promotion of trade relations
Experience has proved that progress which can be made in the specific field of import arrangements is not by itself enough, to increase developing countries'
exports to the industrialized countries " markets . It seems necessary , in view of those countries * economic structure in the trade field , to accompany measures affecting import arrangements "by trade cooperation.
In particular this is a question of measures to be taken in the trade promotion
field. The Community has already indicated, in the Council Resolution of July 1974
the importance it attaches to this problem and its intention to aid developing
countries which are not members of the ACP. Action already taken to improve
the structures relating to the promotion of trade and to encourage developing countries* participation in fairs and exhibitions should be reinforced by new measures for
training trade promotion experts and carrying out market research and surveys.
In the light of experience gained in all these fields tinder the Yaounde Convention and in line with what is intended in the Lome Convention, progress could also be made on improving cooperation between the Community*s business firms and developing countries in the trade field by establishing firmer and closer relations to provide importers and exporters with a better understanding of the problems involved. Other measures to promote cooperation between certain industrial sectors of the developing countries and the Community*s firms should be taken into consideration, making allowances for the special characteristics of the various developing countries.
Trade cooperation measures could be organized on the one hand within the framework of bilateral relations with the various developing countries and,
on the other, within the framework of the Community's relations with the regional integration areas established among developing countries. Agreement could be sought with other industrialized oountries on improving understanding and providing an exchange of information in this particular field.
111• INDUSTRIAL COOPERATION AND TRANSFER OF TECHNOLOGY 1. Extension of Lima
In the field of industrial cooperation the Seventh Special Session will be the direct extension of the Second General Conference of UNIDO, which was held in Lima from 12 to 27 March 1975*
This Conference narked an important stage in the definition of new guidelines
for industrial cooperation# The vital need for developing countries to increase the pace of their industrial development was recognized more clearly than ever
and here an extremely ambitious quantified target was set (25$ share of world industrial production for the developing countries in the year 2000). The need
for the redeployment of industries, for a new distribution of industrial activities in the world, for on-the-spot processing of raw materials was clearly acknowledged. TM The principle of a certain framework for the operations of multinational companies hasbeenaccepted. Thequestionoftheconsequenceswhichindustrialcooperation will undoubtedly have for the industrialized countries* internal structures has not been evaded*
2. Putting an end to the ambiguity of the Community's attitude
The Member States* attitude at the final vote on the Lima Declaration gave the impression of a lack of Community cohesion and gave rise to great ambiguity as to therealposition; thevotesofcertainMemberStatesmusthaveseemedtocontradict the constructive attitude proclaimed by the Community.
It should, however, be remembered that the vote was on ten paragraphs only, covering not more than five major problems which were virtually all outside the industrial field proper.
The Commission proposes that the Community and its Member States take the opportunity
offered by the Seventh Special Session to identify themselves more clearly with the
results achieved in Lima in the industrial field proper recognize that this
Conference has provided a positive sectoral contribution to the establishment of s0new international economic order"^
See the Resolution on action to be taken following the decisions and recommendations of the Second General Conference of UNIDO adopted, with the approval of the Member States, by the Industrial Development Board of UNIDO in Vienna (21 April- 2 May 1975)*
3. The role of firms
Industrial cooperation is clearly distinguishable from oooperation in other sectors - infrastructure ! health measures , training , agriculture - in that close assistance from foreign firms is vital.
The Commission believes that here it must raise the point of a fundamental inconsistency in the conclusions arrived at in Lima: the industrial development ambitions expressed at Lima seem difficult to reconcile with the developing countries* attitude of caution - almost of systematic suspicion - as regards private foreign firms in particular.
Here it is not enough to appeal to the developing countries to create a climate
of confidence. Instead, the question should be examined with them of what
measures can be taken on both sides to bring the developing countries* requirements and the firms * legitimate interests into line with one another .
This is the subject on idiich the Commission proposes to base its considerations^.
4* Strengthening of cooperation between governments
The Commission considers that the Community and the Member States should show that they are prepared to cooperate with the developing countries* governments on industrialization and that they are not simply going to leave firms a clear field .
Such oooperation would first deal with the traditional fields which come under financial and teohnioal oooperation infrastructure linked with industrialization,
training, studies, eto.) and trade oooperation (access to the Community market, trade promotion). It must systematically support efforts aimed at regional cooperation among developing oountries, which is especially vital for industrial development •
Although in the Communication presented here the Commission is concentrating on this specific subjeot, it would also like to point to the other guidelines which it suggested in its Communication to the Council in preparation for Lima (C0M(75;45 final of 12 February 1975) and which, since they still hold good, cam continue to serve as a reference for Community positions on industrial cooperation.
Beyond that, the developing countries attach great importance to cooperation in the matter of a framework for the operations of firms, particularly- transnational companies*
It must "be realized that developing countries are generally ill-prepared
to deal with "big firms and that they often find themselves exposed to quasi- monopolisticsituations* Itwouldtherefore"beappropriateto
abused, as industrialized countries do at home under rules guaranteeing the free play of competition.
The Commission therefore considers that developing countries should be able to rely on the Community to help them find a reasonable balance between their interests and those of foreign firms. i
With such a general cooperative attitude a wide field would be opened for industrial promotion measures aimed at studying concrete opportunities for industrialization and industrial cooperation, for organizing the flow of information and for facilitating all kinds of contact between promoters, firms and those responsible for industrial development.
To carry out these functions, the LomS Convention has provided an original mechanism involving the establishment of a Centre for Industrial Development , managed jointly by the ACP States and the Community.
The Commission considers that this new initiative will be valuable in providing a\ source of information on the conditions governing the effectiveness of this kind of action; when a certain amount of experience has been gained, it will
penait assessment of whether, and under what conditions, it would be possible and desirable to extend this form of cooperation to other developing countries. Certain trade cooperation agreements might here provide a favourable framework for such additional activity.
In the Commission*s opinion, apart from information and promotion aimed at specific points it would be advisable to improve the system for reciprocal information on foreseeable trends at least in some major industrial sectors
so that the risk of overcapacity or "bottlenecks can be detected in time. Such an attempt at flexible cooperation must, however, take account of the limits set by our market-economy system.
The Commission considers that UNIDO could play a useful role in providing informationonindustrialdevelopmentsatworldlevel. However,itwill be difficult, at least in the short term, to achieve real agreement within suchawideframework. Regionalarrangements(suchastheCommunityhas concluded or is concluding, particularly with Black Africa and the Mediterranean region) may be more appropriate.
6. From traditional investments to new forms of cooperation with firms
Although a number of developing countries – those producing oil and sought-after raw materials - are now able to finance their industrial development from their national resources, this is not so for many others. For the latter foreign investment, whether public or private, should continue to be encouraged.
With regard to incentives to attract private investments the Commission suggests that the Member States organize, within the Community framework, an exchange of experiences on the effectiveness of the instruments - fiscal measures and guarantees - which they have used to improve the real impact. ItstillbelievesthatthecreationofaCommunityguarantee system would now more than ever be what industrial cooperation needs, particularly in the case of transnational investments by firms from a number of Member States.
The appearance of surplus financial resources in certain developing countries should bring the Community and its Member States to promote to a greater extent triangular operations, combining these financial surpluses with the European countries* contributions of technology,
management resources and training opportunities and with the raw materials and manpower resources of the developing countries which will act as host to the new industrial ventures.
For developing countries which are able to do without foreign capital for their industrial development a new problem has arisen (or an old problem has taken on a new dimension) resulting from the disappointing experiences ofcertaindevelopingcountriesregardingturnkeyprojects: whowill provide a guarantee against the risk of industrial plant not living up to expectations .
Of course the governments of the industrialized countries will not be able to guarantee – as eui Algerian-inspired resolution put forward at Lima asks them to – the quality and smooth operation of industrial schemes undertaken withtheassistanceoftheirnationalsindevelopingcountries. However, the Commission considers that the Community should at least acknowledge that the problem raised by Algeria is a real one when the foreign firm is no longer financially committed through a contribution of its own. It should state that it is prepared to help the developing countries identify the risks with which they are confronted. The Commission suggests that the possibility be explored of setting up a system of insurance to enable European firms to assume additional responsibilities imposed upon them by
As regards verifying the quality of services rendered competent bodies exist whose objeotivity is undisputed and which might be used more systematically. Certain forms of official technical assistance (ad hoc expertise, temporary provision of advisers, accelerated training programmes, etc.) might prove useful where help is needed. In the case of firms which might prove to consist of unscrupulous businessmen, the pressures which the governments of the industrialized countries* can exercise, even if only through guarantee systems for instance, should be fully recognized.
7. Improving the terms for the transfer of technology
Although any industrial cooperation scheme involves a transfer of technology so that it is not always easy to distinguish one from the other, the transfer of technology presents certain specific aspects which could be dealt with by special action.
The Community and the Member States are taking part in preparing within the framework of UNCTAD, an international code of conduct on technological transfer. The Commission feels that the Community and the Member States should state at the Seventh Special Session that they will actively pursue the efforts to achieve such a code and do their best to ensure that its rules - although they cannot be binding - are observed.
The Community could also announce that it intends to provide assistance
to ensure better transparency of the industrial property market and to facilitatedevelopingcountries*technologicalchoices: informationand documentation on available technology advice on choosing and developing adapted techniques, establishment of contact between those requiring and those supplying techniques, specialist training in industrial property,
etc. Some of these measures presuppose the existence of financial resources, even if only very modest resources.
thus aiding the developing countries to get a clearer idea of the very complex problems involved in the transfer of technology, the Community
would contribute to restoring the free play of market forces in a field where competition is often lacking.
8. The developing countries* contribution: the welcome they provide
If the Community were prepared to offer these various forms of help in order to integrate its firms in industrial cooperation in a way which respects
the developing countries* sovereignty and takes maximum account of their interests it would be entitled to insist on a requirement from them in return: the welcome and the stability of the working conditions to be offered to foreign firms. Rather than granting them privileges, the developing country should clearly inform them of the rules and undertake
to stick to them. 3y doing this, they can keep their political options wide open, as well as the possibility of nationalization provided that the latter is carried out with the neoessary fairness.
It should be emphasized to the developing countries that the climate of uncertainty is often the cause of a lack of dynamic commitment by foreign firms and-whentheydocommitthemselves–thereasonforexcessiveprofits.- Th« restoration of a climate of confidence, however, would attract industrial projects of normal profitability which, because they would not have to be amortized over a very short period, would not be carried out in an atmosphere of uncertainty.
9. Consequences for the internal structures
The implementation of a substantial industrial cooperation policy implies a number of choices involving the search for a new industrial "balance in the EEC countries. These policies of adjustment require that account be taken of major trends , of the location of activities "by sector in view of certain constraints , such as the technological level of the industry considered or
of the labour market .
The extent of industrial cooperation and of its corollary, the redeployment
of certain Community industries in the developing countries, will primarily depend upon making firms aware of this need and minimizing the foreseeable social upheavals by avoiding the necessary readaptation of industrialization being carried out at the expense of sacrifices imposed solely upon the working classes in the industrialized countries: (the European Social Fund is
already in a position to make a substantial contribution to retraining workers without waiting for them to become unemployed; action by the European Bank, the EAGGP and the Regional Fund can enable the foreseeable imbalances to be minimized). The capacity for redeployment will also depend upon the EEC's ability to master an adequate technological dimension in
strategically important fields (nuclear, informatics, aerospace) and to be competitive on an international scale.
The reluctance to invest abroad has so far been due, among other things, to the fear that such investment would involve a reduction in the investor
countries* internal growth. The extent to which the Community will be able to participate actively in the redeployment of industry - which, moreover, will be realized by the transfer of the growth of such and such sin industrial
sector and not of entire sectors - will depend on whether there is prolonged economic stability.
1 . Confirmation of the objective of official development assistance
An increased flow of financial resources is an important factor for the success of the second half of the Development Decade. The Commission considers
that the Member States should reconfirm publicly their desire , expressed jointly in the Resolution adopted in July 1974 by the Council , to attain as soon as possible the objective of 0.7$ laid down in the Strategy, progressing
towards this objective at a rate determined by the distance at present
separating them from it . At the same time the Member States should
emphasize their resolve to insulate in so far as possible the development of their official development assistance from any budgetary or balance of payments difficulties in order to ensure that the flow of aid remains continuous, as recommended by the Strategy.
In support of their desire , the Member States and the Community will also be able to point to (besides intentions regarding the future development of each of the Member States* bilateral aid) the considerable increase in Community aid which will come about as a result of the financial provisions
of the Lom6 Convention and the agreements to be concluded with the Mediterranean countries.
In the same context the Community should reaffirm the principle of granting financial and technical assistance to non-associated developing countries and announce that the terms under which this principle is to be implemented in the near future are currently being examined by the Community authorities . Here it could be emphasized that the technical assistance granted Bince
1974 to non-associated developing countries in trade promotion and regional
An exception being made for certain Member States which find themselves
integration matters, and in particular the Community contribution to the United Rations emergency action, already constitute the first steps in this direction .
On the other hand, the Commission considers that it is premature to discuss any requests which might "be made "by the developing countries for reformulation of the official development assistance objective - either "by taking into account interest payments or by excluding certain types of financial flows - as long as the objectives set previously have not "been attained.
2. Reorientation of aid
Since it is mainly the poorest of the developing countries which suffered most from the inadequacy of the flow of aid during the early years of the Development Decade , it is important that , side by side with the increase in volume, the flow of official development assistance be
redirected towards those oountries. The Commission considers that
the Member States and the Community will have to gear their respective aid programmes to this need and announce their intention to do so before the General Assembly.
Furthermore, to give greater weight to such a declaration, the Member States and the Community could take the initiative of proposing that a specific international objective be set in this field . Such an objective , with regard to which a number of practical formulae are possible (and are currently being examined by the Development Assistance Committee of the OECD) , should aim at achieving a better correlation between the share of official development assistance intended for the least developed countries and the size of their population relative to the total population of the developing countries. The work on defining the detailed rules to be
adopted for this objective could be carried out as part of the work on updating the Strategy for the Second Decade.
3 . Aid to specific sectors
With regard to the sectoral allocation of aid, greater attention will have to "be paid in the future to the developing countries* food requirements and, in general, to the development of rural regions. The main objective in this field should "be to improve the standard of living of the worst off sections of the population "by a wide variety of measures dealing with all aspects of rural life. The Commission considers that the Member States of the Community should use their endeavours to see that a greater effort is made here by the international community. As regards their own aid programmes, the Member States should stress that they are willing to increase the share of aid devoted directly or indirectly to these objectives should the recipient countries so wish. In addition, it would be desirable if the Community could now state that current thinking on the extension of financial aid to non-associated developing countries was also tending in that direction.
At the same time the Community and the Member States should state that they intend to continue their food aid programmes - where local production remains structurally inadequate, and in emergency situations – and to increase both the volume and range of products supplied.
In the same context it should be possible to state that the Community authorities are studying whether and under what conditions the Community could contribute
to the International Pond for Agricultural Development should that Fund, whioh was proposed at the reoent World Food Conference, be set up.
Greater attention will have to be paid in the future to the increasingly disturbing indebtedness of the developing countries. In particular, methods should he devised for assisting countries threatened ty crises arising from indebtednessbeforesuchcrisesactuallyoccur. However,theCommission considers that international measures to deal with this problem, in which the Member States should participate fully, cannot be undertaken in accordance with generalized rules applied automatically, as the developing countries would like. Instead,eachindividualcaseshouldbestudiedanddealtwithby reference to the particular circumstances of that case, bearing in mind the need to preserve the international creditworthiness of the country concerned and – above all - to avoid discouraging the pursuit of prudent financial policies.
More important than curative measures, however, is the prevention of crises arising from indebtedness ty a suitable policy on the terms and geographical allocation of aid. The Commission therefore believes that the Member States
and the Community should, on the basis of the Resolutions adopted by the Council in 1974, confirm before the General Assembly their willingness to improve further the terms of their aid, in particular by increasing the overall proportion of grants, and to adapt those terms to the individual circumstances of each recipient country, special attention being paid to those developing countries which are or risk becoming heavily indebted.
On the other hand, the attention of the developing countries should be drawn
to the need for sound management of their external debts, which implies inter alia an effective system for recording and monitoring indebtedness, particularly intheprivatesector. TheMemberStatesandtheCommunityshouldoffer increased teohnioal assistance in this field to all countries which so desire.
As a result mainly of the increased price of oil, certain developing countries now have substantial surplus financial resources, part of which can and must be devoted to the development of the Third World. This situation makes it possible to have new forms of cooperation, bringing together the surplus capital of the oil countries and the know-how of the developed countries, plus where appropriate, additional financial support from the latter.
Some Member States have already taken steps in this direction. It is important now to develop this incipient triangular cooperation – beyond what is already being done bilaterally and multilaterally – and to devise structures to provide a more systematic basis for this new form of cooperation. The Commission considers that the two sessions of the
General Assembly in the autumn could provide an opportunity for the Member States and the Community to launch such an initiative.
6. "Third window" and "oil facility"
The Commission suggests that the Member States adopt a positive attitude to the ideas put forward by the IBRD on establishing an intermediate financing mechanism, to fit in between loans from the Bank and those from the International Development Association (the "third window").
In addition, the Commission considers that it would be desirable for the Member States to confirm that they are prepared to make appropriate contributions to the special fund set up by the IMP in order to reduce the burden of interest which the most seriously affected countries will have to bear under the "oil facility".
7. Linking SDRs and development aid
At the Third Session of the United Rations Conference on Trade and Development (UHCTAD) at Santiago in 1972, the Commission declared itself in favour of a link between special drawing rights (SDRs) and the financing of development, while emphasizing that this procedure should not involve the creation of excessive additional international liquidity. In the meantime the question has been extensively studied and discussed, particularly by the Group of Twenty responsible for drawing up an outline for the reform of the international monetary system. The question of a link is one of the points of the reform which must be settled during the interim period.
The Commission considers that the Member States of the Community should endeavour to speed up any decision on this matter. Such a decision will have to be compatible with the range of measures currently under discussion by the International Monetary Fund for improving the functioning of the international monetary system in the immediate future.
8. Quotas and voting rights in the International Monetary Fund
In accordance with the conclusions reached by the Council on 20 May 1975, the Community will assert its view that the IMF quotas of the developing countries which axe net exporters of oil must be doubled as a percentage and those of the other developing countries maintained (at the same percentage level). The result would be to reduce the developed countries* quotas. Hy this procedure the voting rights of the developing countries as a whole would be quite considerably increased.
 Progress of the developing countries during1 the first half of the Second Development Decade with particular reference to the Goals and Objectives of the International Development Strategy.
The results of the first half of the second development decade present
a rather diversified picture. Most of the quantitative targets laid down
in the Strategy, relating to overall production, industrial and agricultural production, trade expansion and domestic savings, were achieved or almost achieved during the period 1970 ~ "to 1973 ( the last year for which data is available).
On the other hand one of the most important targets was for agricultural productior, yet there was a marked failure to reach anything approaching the Strategy target in this sector. Mor:over the aggregate. results achieved for developing countries an a whole concealed, very considerable disparities
between them.
. While it was relatively easy to identify successes or shortfalls in the achievement of the quantitative targets outlined in the Strategy, it
was much more difficult to evaluate the more general qualitative targets.
The qualitative goals of the Strategy were broad and ambitious : - to bring about a more equitable distribution of income and wealth for promoting social
•justice and efficiency of production, to raise substantially the level of employment, to achieve a greater degree of income security, to expand and improve facilities for education, health, nutrition, housing and social welfare. The overall objective that of social development, including the eradication of mass poverty in the world, remains an elusive goal. Not­ withstanding the importance of these qualitative objectives , especially because of the pressing nature of the twin problems of structural unemnloyment and mass poverty, the rest of this paper foousses upon the economic results attained during the first part of the second development decade, where concrete data is more readily available.
The developing countries achieved an overall growth rate of 5.7/> between 1970 and 1973 , almost reaching the 6.0^ target for overall economic
growth in the Strategy. Given that the rate of population growth was about 2.5r> per annum ( a figure which was probably only marginally exceeded according to recent estimates) then this would have led to a per capita growth rate in production of 3•1% per annum, a little short of the Strategy target of 3.5$*
Yet these aggregate achievements concealed very considerable disparities, and tended to divert attention from the reality that only
a third of developing cowtry populations lived in countries where the 6%overallgrowthratetargetvrasachievedwhereasabout45/': ofthe population of developing countries lived in countries which only achieved an. annual growth rate of less than 2% per annum. Of these twenty four low performance countries, thirteen, accounting for 6.4^- of the population
ofdevelopingcountries, actuallyexperiencednegativegrowthingross domestic product between 1971 and 1973 » This contrasts with the most fortunate section of the population of developing countries , 10.4?? of whom lived in the ten countries which increased their annual production by nore than 10.0*5 during this same period.
These disparities became more acute when diverse demographic factors are taken into account. Thus more than 40fi of the population of the developing countries live in countries where per capita income actually declined between 1971 and 1973 . Most of the people in this category (about 36^ of the population of developing countries), live in countries in which per capita income fell by lf> or less, whereas 8.8°?- of the population sufferedadeclineinpercapitaincomeofmorethan1^. Additionally another 5$ of the population were affected by per capita production falls reflecting special circumstances , including two cases of planned production reductions (Kuwait and Libyan Arab Republic), but more typically the consequences of adverse weather conditions (Sahel and India) or politics,! instability (in certain cases notably in the Middle "East and South East Asia,). Ontheotherhandtwelvedevelopingcountries,withabout15t;/'of the total population evperinced per capita production increases of over 5.5®:, including increases in the range between 10f£ and 2^.
The main factor behind the overall achievements of developing countries during this period has been trade , and the results achieved in this sector were encouraging. The trade of developing countries increased
by about ■ per annum , exceeding the target in the Strategy , and the target for developing country imports Was =lso exceeded.
Yet once again, the overall success in the trade field reflected a diversity of development situations. The gains in trade were made largely
in Western Asia and in the oil producing countries , and least progress
*'as made in Africa, and South and East Asia. The trade deficits of non-oil exporting developing countries were deteriorating by 1974 and their
overall deficit is expected to rise from $ 29 thousand million in 1974 to
^ A1 thousand million in 1975• Thus the overall trade figures do not properly reflect the variations in the advantages accruing to developing countries as a result of primary material price increases.
Moreover, the overall successes in the field of trade were achieved because of the buoyancy of international commodity markets between 1971 and 1973 and because of the associated Irise in prices for these commodities , rather than as a result of positive trade liberalization measures or the imnlementation of the International Development Strategy. Indeed prices for commodities from developing countries rose on average by 17''4 per year overall between 1971 and 1973, the greater part of this increase being accounted for by the dramatic increase in. oil prices . At the same time , the terms of trade of the non-oil exporting countries deteriorated and are currently expected to benefit the developed countries to the tune of f>7.5 thousand million in 1975•
A • Domestic savings
Given overall successes in the field of trade developing oountries were on aggregate able to mobilize resources in line with the target of a 20^o savings ratio by I98O. In the African region the average savings ration between 1971 and 1973 rose by 0.9# per annum, at a fractionally greater rate than in South and East Asia. This took the African average above 2<K overall gross domestic savings during that period in comparison with lGfe for Asia. Savings rates in the developing countries of the Western Hemisphere continued to decline in terms of past performance in the I960's but still achieved a rate of 19# in the period in question.
The countries in which there were serious declines in savings ratios nearly all have problems of political instability or special difficulties, mcsHycountries in +he Indo China peninsula and Bangladesh.
Another successful sector in overall terms was that of industrial development where the aggregate target of 8^ industrial growth per annum was reached
and marginally exceeded. Again development in this sector was not even between developing countries hut encouraging progress was made in parts
of Asia - and Africa , with implications for the generation of industrial employment. The very high rates of growth in employed industrial labour force in Brazil , Iran , Republic of Korea and Singapore were offset by very poor performance in most other developing countries , including those with large populations .
Paradoxically the success in economic diversification in terms of
growth of the manufacturing sector did nothing to resolve , and indeed
accentuated , the problem of unemployment in developing countries . The
problem of structural unemployment became more and more serious during
the first half of the decade, as industrial growth failed to absorb labour resources no longer involved in agricultural production or in traditional sectors. Whilst industrial development ma.de a substantial and vital con­ tribution to the growth of gross domestic production it did not contribute
in anything like the same proportion to the creation of employment opportunities. This implied that the model of development chosen by some developing
countries might in some cases be inappropriate, resulting in untenable
planning assumptions, especially on the likely absorption of labour by
industry from increasingly modernized agriculture.
One conclusion from this failure was that the relationship between agricultural production and manufacturing in developing countries should be a much closer one in which manufacturing and secondary processing activities can grow upon the secure base of a viable rural economy.
Unfortunately , it is in this agricultural sector that there is ample evidence of the most major failure in the implementation of the International ^Development Strategy. Agricultural production rose overall only at 2.0f^ per annum, that is, at a lower rate than population increase (2.5°^ per year) and at only half the rate laid down as the Strategy target. The implied actual decline in per capita food production
 within developing economies. /
in developing countries contributed materially to the world food crisis whilst acoeca to key agricultural inputs became more difficult and expensive. Justaspopulationgrowthoutstrippedfoodproductionin developing countries, so the creation of employment opportunities in agriculture, as in industry, did not keep pace with the 2.1% overall annual increase in the labour force of developing countries.
The failures in the implementation of the International Development Strategy, and paradoxically some of the successes also, show that the capacity of developing countries for economic self-reliance on a national or regional basis is insufficient. Of course shortfalls in the
implementation of the Strategy reflect poor performance on the part of
developed countries in the implementation of Strategy policy measures. Nonetheless developing countries would be in a better position to resolve
more of their own problems if measures for trade cooperation general^ and
for regional integration between developing countries could be increased with the objective of greater economic self-reliance on a national and regional basis.
It has been widely recognised that developing countries remain too dependant
upon the export of raw materials, which in turn makes
the uncertainties of international commodity markets .
some developing countries did so well during the boom
1973 is illustrative that dependance upon such fluctuations is not an
adequate basis for planning for development . As soon as these fluctuations refleot downturns instead of upturns developing countries are immediately placed at a massive disadvantage and have to savagely cut the development
plans which appeared praotical and neoessary before these fluctuations oonurred. In fact the necessity for development remains but the practicality diminishes. Smergenny measures are clearly inadequate to deal with suoh fluctuations , it
is the fluctuations themselves which somehow have to bo "ironed out" or their negative consequences reduced.
Hence greater emphasis must be given to viable agricultural and industrial development in tandem with each other, to regional and sub- regional integration between developing countries on the lines already generally laid down in the Strategy, to foster a rational and outward-1coking expansion of trade. The orientation of policy measures and of development plans towards the concept of economic self-reliance will be one way of
attempting to reduce disparities between countries and to reduce inequalities
them dependant upon The very fact that
period of 1971 "to
The Community's action and achievements in the context of implementation of the measures called for by the Strategy during the first half of the Development Decade
In the context of the mid-term general appraisal of progress made xn implementing
the Strategy, it is essential from a practical and operational as well as political viewpoint to have available a balance sheet and an analysis of action or achievements falling within the objectives and means defined by the Strategy which the Community and its Member States can include on their credit side in the general field of development aid.
Accordingly, this Annex deals in turn with the principal measures called for by the Strategy .
The Strategy puts international trade at the top of the list of fields of action for which specific national and international measures are recommended to promote the expansion of exports from the developing countries as a factor of development.
1.1 The trend of trade between the Community and the developing countries
An examination of the trade statistics reveals a generally positive trend, in both absolute and relative terms, in trade between the Community and the developing countries to the latter's advantage and confirms the Community's special role in this context as both principal customer and principal supplier.
The enlargement of the Community in 1973» far from weakening this general tendency, has in fact strengthened it .
' lihoivrr the proportion of products other than agricultural products and energy- materials in the Community's imports from the developing countries is still relatively low (8.5$ in 1973, 7*5% in 1972) and virtually unchanged since 1970
(8.6%), the role played by the system of generalized preferences in the increase recorded from 1972 to 1973 should however be stressed. Further, the total volume of exports from the developing countries to the Community calls for particular attention; the EEc now takes over one third of these exports, that is as much as the United States and Japan combined (and ten times more than the state-trading countries). In addition, the Community's imports from the developing countries currently represent more than one third of its total imports. This is all the more significant as exports to those countries represent only one quarter or so of the Community's total exports. In terms of absolute value, imports were consistently higher than exports from 1970 "to 1973 and the Community's deficit in its trade with the developing countries has in fact tended to grow. Over the same period (except in 1970 when trade was in balance), the EEC's trade with non-member countries as a whole was in surplus.
1.2 The Community's action in the commodities field
During the first half of the Second United Nations Development Decade, the Community continued its policy of international cooperation linked to the problems of commodities in the same spirit as in the First Development Decade. Without equating in a simplistic way the problems of commodities and the problems of the developing countries in general , the Community has however directed its action principally in accordance with the interests of the producer countries as long as the market situation for the commodities mainly exported by the developing countries has remained precarious
As a result of the important changes that have taken place in the world economy since 1973, new factors have arisen in the commodities field and problems hitherto unknown have appeared. To the problems of the defence of minimum prices, stable earnings, and development of market outlets and consumption have been added the problems of
stability of supplies in sufficient quantities and at reasonable prices, and indeed even of access to the sources of raw materials.
In 1975 therefore, the Community^ action is directed towards seeking more "balanced forms of cooperation against a "background of interdependence and convergence of the interests of the developed and developing countries.
The practical steps undertaken "by the Community in the commodities field are related to the three aspects of access to the markets, price policy and diversification of the economic structures of the developing countries.
As regards access to the markets, the Community has continued its work on the dismantling of tariffs and quotas both for commodities and for products processedfromthem. Ontheotherhand,therehasnotbeenanyprogressin the specific fields of the elimination of fiscal duties which are still charged on the consumption of certain commodities* in particular tropical products, or the adaptation of legislation to promote the use of these products.
In the trade field, the Community has extended technical and financial assistance not only to those developing countries which have special relationships with
it but also to other developing countries to help them in their efforts to develop and diversify their commodity exports.
In the field of price polioy, the Community has oontinued to participate as actively as possible in the management and renewal of the international oommodity agreements. Thesituationherevariesfromproducttoproduct.
As regards the speoifio case of tin, the current negotiations for a new agreement, in which the Community is participating, is of particular importance* The operating record of the current agreement is fairly modest in respeot of both its management and the Community's participation.
As regards cocoa, the quota and stock-building machinery has not yet "been in operation, given the level of prices, "but the financing of the buffer stock - is assured.
In the case of other agreements, difficulties have arisen in maintaining their regulatoryroleinthemarkets(coffee,sugar); incertaincases,the Community has not been able to participate as such in the renewed agreements, either for fundamental reasons (sugar)or because of the divergent positions of the Member States (coffee, olive oil).
In addition to these albeit modest efforts in specific sectors, the Community has participated in thework on new methods of approach to international problems and policies in the commodities field advocated by the UN Trade and Development Board (September 1974)* Likewise the Community approved in February 1975 "the Resolution of the UNCTAD Committee on Commodities on an integrated programme for commodities.
Lastly, in the context of the association agreements, the Community has continued its,geographically limited, action in the field of commocuties of interest to a large number of countries, with the aim in particular of diversifyingproductionstructures(seebelow). Thesystemforthe stabilization of export earnings set up by the Loral Convention introduces a new and original element.
The record of the first years of the Development Decade is not therefore characterized, by special initiatives on the part of the Community at international level and is generally speaking - with the exception of the Lom6 Convention - fairly meagre.
This is partly a result of the fact that it has always been difficult in these complex matters connected with the international commodities trade to pursue a Community action or even achieve joint action by the Member States. However, the principal difficulties which would have to be overcome by any meaningful
action in this field involve a series of closely interrelated economic and structural problems ; for not only has the international community been subject for three years now to constraints resulting from the currenoy crisis and world inflation,
which "the European Economic Community has not escaped, out it is also increasingly evident that the problems of commodities, and a fortiori their trade aspects alone, cannot be isolated from the problems of the diversification of the economies and the industrialization of the developing countries which
are still dependent on commodities alone or from the supply, conversion and employment problems faced by the developed countries.
1.3 Manufactured and semi-finished products
One of the means envisaged by the International Development Strategy for the attainment of its objectives is the promotion of the expansion and diversification of exports of manufactured and semi-finished products from the developing countries, particularly through the introduction of generalized preferential treatment to help those exports on the markets of the developed countries.
The Community was the first economic area to implement a generalized scheme of preferences - introduced in July 1971* The Community scheme, which has been applied by the enlarged Community since 1 January 1974» is the subject of annual implementing regulations . Thus it is possible , in line with the
dynamic approach advocated by the Strategy, to introduce the modifications necessary to take increasing account of the developing countries'needs and of new possibilities in relation to the commitments resulting from the special
links between the Community and a number of countries. For prooessed agricultural products, the scheme provides for a reduotion of between 20 and 40$ in the Common Customs Tariff for approximately 220 produots, but many products enjoy toted exemption. Industrial produots enter the Community free of duty within the limit of oeilings calculated eaoh year on the basis of the level of exports achieved by the benefioiary oountries during a referenoe year inoreaBed by a percentage (5$) of exports from non-beneficiary oountries based on the
most recent statistioal data. A system of maximum amounts for eaoh oountry Is intended to enable every beneficiary oountry to enjoy preferential access to the Community market. Zero-duty tariff quotas are applied to a limited
number of products considered by the Community as particularly "sensitive". Rules of origin, which have already been made more flexible since the introduction of the system to take account of the specific problems of areas aiming at regional integration, ensure that the scheme of preferences does in fact help the beneficiary exporting countries.
An assessment of the importance of the Community scheme for imports into the Community from the developing countries and of the improvements to the system which have been introduced up to 1975 can be made, given the lack of precise statistical returns , by looking at the preferential import possibilities opened up between 1974 and 1975*
These possibilities have been increased:
for m?.nufactured and semi-finished industrial products other than textiles: from 340 million u.a. to 2 300 million u.a.;
for processed agricultural products: from 45 million u.a. to 650 million u.a.;
for textile products: from 19 429 "t to 71 000 t.
Even if the beneficiary countries have not been able to use the scheme to the full , mainly because of the time they have needed to be able to comply with the origin rules and because of the difficulties experienced by certain countries in familiarizing themselves with the fairly complex
procedures of the system , these figures give an idea of the effort made
by the Community to meet as far as possible the requirements of the developing countries in a dynamic and pragmatio approaoh within the framework
of an overall programme*
Moreover, in a Resolution of 3 March 1975* 'the Council, conscious of the importance of the preferential scheme as a factor in an effective development cooperation action, expressed its willingness to maintain the Community scheme and to develop it on a continuous and progressive basis.
In view of the difficulties experienced by certain developing countries in the use of this scheme, a number of information seminars have been organized by the Community since 1972 in Asia and Latin America.
1.4 The multilateral trade negotiations
Since work began on the implementation of the International Development Strategy, the multilateral trade negotiations have begun in Geneva with the aim of achieving an increasingly broad expansion and liberalization of world trade and of providing additional advantages for the trade of the developing countries . In these negotiations , the developed countries intend to apply differentiated measures to the developing countries, and do not expect reciprocity for the undertakings they enter into during these negotiations to reduce or eliminate obstacles to trade.
Although it was not possible to begin the multilateral negotiations in accordance with the timetable originally laid down, the Community itself had defined its overall approach to them as early as mid-1973 and was therefore ready to negotiate as from that time, as advocated in the Strategy. For the Community, however, these negotiations - with the developing countries as full partners - which must deal with both tariff and non-tariff barriers, do not constitute an end in themselves but must be situated in a global context of international action to overcome the current world economic crisis .
The Community has signed non-preferential agreements with oertain Latin American and Asian countries to develop trade and economic relations between the contracting parties . The agreements with Argentina , Uruguay and Brazil contain in particular specific provisions to facilitate imports into the Community of certain agricultural products of which these countries are major producers . In addition , the agreements provide for the introduction of cooperation in the agricultural sphere and for the purpose of marketing the products enjoying concessions. This cooperation should permit an orderly development of trade which takes account of the economic situation of both parties and avoids serious
disturbances which would jeopardize the expansion of trade. To this end there is a regular exchange of information between both sides on the problems faced in the sectors in question.
The trade cooperation agreement concluded with India represents a new and original form of the dialogue with the developing countries. Its main objective is the development and diversification of mutual trade. It also provides for the establishment of a Joint Committee to study, define and apply the means of cooperation.
Similar agreements are being negotiated with other developing countries in
Latin America and Asia, for example Mexioo, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan. In the same context mention should be made of the agreement concluded with
India in the field of trade in textiles under the international Multifibre Agreement, and of like agreements being negotiated with a number of Asian developing countries such as Pakistan, South Korea and Hong Kong.
1.6 Trade arrangements under the Lomé Convention
The trade arrangements established by the Lome Convention between the Community and the ACP States substantially take over those of the Yaounde Convention with notable changes as regards reciprocity. The Community grants free access to its markets for 92% of exports from the ACP States. For the remainder, preferential treatment is given. For their part , the ACP States are not obliged to grant the Community more than most-favoured-nation treatment *
These arrangements, which oonoern a group of countries nearly one half of which are among the least developed, will be subject to a periodical review, the purpose of which will be to permit adaptation of the concessions made to the ACP, particularly in the matter of rules of origin and coverage of agricultural products, to their development effort and their new types of production.
1.7 Financial and technical cooperation and trade promotion
The opening - as regards tariffs and quotas - of the Community market to
exports from the developing countries is an essential condition for a satisfactory develooment of those countries * trade .
Experience shows, however, that the existence of trade arrangements, thougn very favourable, is not sufficient to guarantee this development for tariff preferences do not normally constitute in themselves a sufficient incentive to embark on significant new developments.
The Community is therefore endeavouring to supplement "traditional" trade measures, particularly by financial and technical cooperation and trade promotion.
The financial and technical cooperation which the Community is offering to the developing countries under cooperation or association agreements helps towards the creation of new industrial capacity in those countries and consequently towards a certain redistribution of capacity across the world. In doing this, the Community is aware of the ensuing necessity to adapt its own industrial structures. However, adaptation of this kind could not be carried out exclusively by reference to external conditions. Since complex internal economic and social factors are involved, the Community must also take into account internal considerations of social and economic equilibrium, such as those determining the action of the Social Fund. Nevertheless,
this action designed to accompany a process of adjustment of economic structures which is inevitable and necessary in a general development context, necessarily coincides in its effects with the objective laid down in the Strategy of facilitating the expansion of imports from the
The first major programmes undertaken by the Community to promote the developing countries* exports coincide with the start of the Second Development Decade. It was under the Yaounde Convention (1971-75)» which established the Association of 17 African States plus Madagascar and Mauritius with the EEC, that specific aids were introduced for this purpose.
The object of these marketing aids was to improve the structures and working methods of the foreign trade promotion bodies in the Associated States or to promote the creation of such bodies, to facilitate the participation of those
countries in fairs and exhibitions, to train trade promotion experts, to undertake market studies and surveys, and so on.
Although the trade promotion activities were limited, until recently, to those developing countries with which it had concluded individual cooperation agreements, the Community, encouraged by the positive results obtained, decided in 1974 "to offer non-associated developing countries the possibility of similar assistance. The Community considers that, in the context of the overall cooperation policy at world level which it has outlined, the implementation of accompanying measures to translate the guidelines of its trade policy – one of the common policies – into practical terms is of prime import ance .
Accordingly, the first actions were begun at the end of 1974 and were aimed at both Asian and Latin American countries. Special mention should be made of the numerous seminars on the generalized preferences scheme to help the developing countries to derive the maximum rivantage from it. The programmes to help non–associated developing countries, though still modest in scale, will be developed substantially over the next few years.
The Lome Convention (signed in February 1975) between the EEC and 46 African, Caribbean and Facific States took up and emphasized the theme of trade promotion. Particular stress is laid on the improvement of cooperation between firms in the Community and those of its partners and appropriate liaisor. structures are to be set up to foster this cooperation.
The Strategy calls on the developed countries to support the regional raid subregional cooperation initiatives undertaken by the developing countries by means of financial and technical assistance measures and trade policy
measures .
The Community, which is itself engaged in an integration process, has always been inolined and had a particular duty to help the
developing countries to organize or strengthen their economic cooperation at a regional level.
In the agreement which the Community has concluded with groups of developing countries, for instance the YaoundS Conventions, the theme of cooperation between these countries themselves has assumed an increasingly important role. It is particularly in the field of financial and technical cooperation that practical steps have been taken in this direction.
In its activity the European Development Fund (EDF) has endeavoured from the outset to follow this guideline. The fact that the States receiving assistance from the EDF are grouped under one and the same international agreement with the Community has considerably facilitated the "regional" approach to the problems.
In recent years, the regional projects have been concerned with means of communication, energy and training. A number of projects for interstate highways can be mentioned linking Togo and Upper Volta, Upper Volta and Ghana, Rwanda and Burundi, Chad and Cameroon and Cameroon and Nigeria. As regards improvements to river and maritime communications, the EDF has made a notable contribution towards the transequatorial route ; this involves Congo , Gabon,
Chad and the Central African Republic. In the energy field, an important inter­ state hydroelectric project (involving Zaire, Rwanda and Burundi) has received EDF aid.
In the training field, the EDF has assisted regional training establishments through projects and technioal assistance ; examples here are the Regional Ce&tre for training in road maintenance (Togo) and the Regional Sohool for Hydraulics Technicians (Upper Volta). Regional oooperation is also reinforoed by the stress which the EDF has laid since 1912, for the purpose of its programme of study grants, on training in Africa. In 1960/61 all EDF scholarship holders did their studies in Europe; in 1973/74» two-thirds of such scholarship holders
(1 757 out of a total of 2 749) reoeived their training in Afrioa. An appreciable proportion of the scholarship holders who carry out their studies in Africa study in a country other than their own.
Considerable technical assistance was given to the creation and establishment of the West African Economic Community.
This effort to strengthen regional cooperation is institutionalized in the Lome Convention which states expressly that the Community will give effective support towards the attainment of the objectives which the 46 African, Caribbean and Pacific States (the ACP) set themselves in the field of regional and inter­ regional cooperation* The partners to the negotiations agreed that approximately 10$ of the total financial resources available under the Convention will be earmarked for the financing of their regional projects. By reserving in this
way an amount of approximately 300 million u.a. out of the amounts to be allocated to the individual countries, the Convention is creating for the first time a real incentive for the Community's partner states to design and propose for Community financing projects which go beyond their strict national interests .
When in 1974, going beyond the framework of specific cooperation agreements,
the Community defined a number of priority items in its development cooperation
policy at world level, it naturally accorded a special place to the theme of
regional cooperation between developing countries. In a Resolution adopted by
it, the Council agreed that the Community would respond favourably to requests
for assistance from groups of developing countries which are in the process of
creating or consolidating economic cooperation or regional integration machinery, where it considers that it caa make an effective contribution.
The Commission has had relations with the Andean Group sinoe 1970 and is following in particular the industrial efforts of this group. A number of Community experts have worked with the experts of the Andean Qroup Junta in this oontext and the Junta authorities have been put in oontaot with industrial circles in the Community which might be interested in developing industrial activities in those countries. In addition, increased cooperation is envisaged with the Association of South-Saat Asian Nations and, for this purpose, a joint study group has been established between the Commission and ASEAN. The terms of reference of this group are to intensify the dialogue and exchange of information in fields of mutual interest
and to search for possible forms of cooperation.
The programme of technical assistance in this field to non-associated developing countries will be extended over the next few years.
Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand.
 3. Transfer of resources
While stressing that the developing countries must assume the major responsibility for financing their development, the Strategy also lays down, in the form of precise quantified objectives, the proportions in which the developed countries should transfer resources to the developing countries.
The total transfer (net payments) of public and private resources from the Member 1
States to the developing countries and multilateral agencies has shown an annual
increase since 1970 of some 13»3$» that is more than twice the rate in the first A
Development Decade (1960/62-1970s increase of 6% per annum). In 1974 , the last year for which figures are available, this transfer reached a volume of nearly
$10 000 million, corresponding to 35$ of the total effort made by the DAG countries and bringing the total contribution of the Member States to the development expenditure undertaken by the developing countries in the initial years of the Decade to nearly $31 600 million.
Therateofincreaseinofficialdevelopmentassistance (oda)alone-whichmakes up the greater part of the total transfer - showed an even more marked acceleration
over the same period, increasing from 3.5$ per annum during the first Development Decadeto16.9$perannumbetween1970and1974* In1974*thetotalodaofthe Member States reached a volume of $4 700 million (i.e. 42$ of the total from the DAG oountrieB, as against only 37$ in 1970)f thereby bringing their total oda during the period 1971–74 to nearly $15 200 million.
This analysis does not include Ireland and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, whioh are not members of the 0ECD*s Development Assistance Committee (DAC) and for which comparable statistics are not available.
All the figures for 1974 are provisional.
3.2 Assessment by reference to the objectives set in the Strategy
Though this trend, is impressive at first sight, the overall result in terms
of volume is rather negative if these results are measured against the objective set in the International Strategy for the Second Development Decade.
It is true that, taken together, the Member States have become during the first half of the Decade, the prime source of oda (since 1972) and of total transfers
(since 1974) for the developing countries, thus taking the place long occupied by the United States.
But the expansion rate of their financial contributions – in current dollars – was barely enough to compensate the rise in prices and the effects of parity
variations. In real terms, therefore, the growth rate of oda has gone down to about 1.5% per annum, while total transfers are even declining by about 1$ annually .
Furthermore, the quantitative objectives set by the Strategy for total transfers (at least 1% of GNP from 1972) and oda (a minimum of 0.7% of GENP to be reached
by 1975 at the latest), which have since been accepted by all the Member States ■ the principle if not the deadlines – are far from being achieved, for only
three Member States have attained and maintained between 1971 and 1974 total transfersequivalentto1%ormoreoftheirGENP. Theothers,eventhosewhich had reached this objective in the preceding years, have scarcely increased their relative effort since 1970 or have even failed to aohieve the -target. Taken as a whole, the Member States reached only 0.87% of their oombined GENP in 1974f
a lower figure than for 1970 (0.98%) and even below the level reoorded at the beginning of the sixties (1.21%).
The oda situation is even worse. Here the Member States together are - with 0.41% of GENP - even further from the target than in the field of total transfer® (successrateofbarely59%)• Noprogresshasbeenrecordedsince1970and,
compared with the beginning of the last Development Decade, their oda efforts havedeclineddistinctly(1960-62:0.63%ofGNP). Thepictureisnobetter
at the level of the individual countries; no Member State attained the objective between 1971 and 1974s the only one to come near it regularly is Denmark, while the others either are making little progress - and very irregular at that – or have even fallen below the level reached on the eve of the Second Decade .
If we add to this unfavourable record that the other members of the Development Assistance Committee are even farther from the objectives, as shown by the overall figures for the seventeen countries (0.83% for total transfers and 0.33% for oda in 1974)» it seems obvious that the slow progress made by the poorest developing countries in particular, which are more dependent than others on external aid for their investments, is largely a result of the shortcomings of the industrialized countries with regard to total financial contributions and especially oda.
3.3 Assessment of the tread of aid terms and conditions
When, on the other hand, we look at the terms and conditions of resource transfers, the record for the first few years of the Second Development Decade is seen to
be distinctly better. The share of oda – which is by definition granted on liberal terms - in the total transfers of the Member States, has risen from 42% in1970to47*5$in1974* WithinodaitselftheproportionofgrantBhas
increased (64% in 1970 And 69•5% in 1973 )• while loan terms have improved
generally* Consequently the total grant element of their oda has risen from 82.1% in 1970 to 87*5$ in 1973» whioh is even in exoess of the amount laid down intheDACReoommendationonaidterms(84%)* Theresultsaohievedhereby individual Member States are also relatively good, although less so than for the Member States as a group. In 1971 only four Member States had achieved,
or nearly, the aims set by the DAO Recommendation, but in 1972 five had done so and in 1973 six.
The 1974 figures on aid terms are not yet available.
Criterion generally used in measuring the quality of aid.
Progress has also been made "by the Member States in untying aid. It is
true to say that all efforts to reach a general agreement on the untying
of oda loans have failed up to now, at both DAG and Community level. Neverthele the DAC members have agreed to untie their contributions to multilateral organizations and some, including four Member States, have reached an agreement tountie,asfrom1975>atleastodaloanstodevelopingcountries. Further attempts have been made to increase the proportion of untied aid in total oda contributions, so that from now on it will be up to between 40$ and 60% of
most Member States* oda. Some of them are below this average because their programmes generally include a higher proportion of technical assistance,
which by nature is tied.
Finally we should add that, because in particular of the growing contributions to the European Development Fund (EDF) and to the Community budget, the volume of oda channelled by the Member States via multilateral organizations has increased appreciably, exceeding 23% in 1973» nearly 9% of which as Community aid .
3.4 Evolution and nature of the Community component of total financial aid
The aid provided by Member States via the Community has undergone a number of important changes since the beginning of the Second Development Decade.
First and foremost, the seoond Yaoundl Convention came into foroe involving, in addition to certain improvements in the quality of finanoi&l cooperation with the Assooiated States, a further increase in the volume of Community aid. From800millionu.a.underYaoundeIitwasputupforthefour–year period from 1971 to 1974 to 1 000 million u.a., of whioh 900 million u.a. under the third EDF and 100 million u.a. from the European Investment Bank's (EIB)ownresouroes. Thissumwassubsequentlyinoreasedby5millionu.a.
in the form of grants for Mauritius, which joined the Convention in 1973•
Secondly, the Community food aid programme, which since 1968 has been added to the Community's activity in favour of developing countries, has grown considerably both in volume and the range of products supplied as well as the number of recipient countries.
These three traditional sources of Community aid (EDF, EIB, food aid) were joined in 1974 by some new forms of assistance to the Third World, namely
the special aid for the Sahel, the Community contribution to the United Nations emergency programme to help the most seriously affected (msa) countries and a technical assistance programme for non–associated developing countries covering trade promotion and regional integration.
The special action for the Sahel, decided on by the Community on the initiative of the European Parliament, consists of a total of 35.6 million u.a. financed out of the Community budget, plus 5 million u.a. to cover certain transport costs already included in the food aid programme. This special aid was granted in addition to the financial and food aid given by the Community to the
Sahel countries (including Ethiopia) seriously affected by drought.
The United Nations emergency programme sprang from an initiative taken by
the Community at the Sixth Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly to enable the countries most seriously affected by the world price movements recorded in 1973/74 to survive. The Community^ contribution to this programme has acted as a driving force. It totals $292 million and includes 42millionintheformoffoodaid. Thelargestshare(about70%) of this aid was granted to non-associated developing countries, mainly in Asia*
The technical assistance programme is "based on two Resolutions adopted by the Council in July 1974 as part of Community efforts to set up gradually an overall development cooperation policy on a world scale. This programme had its modest "beginnings in 1974 with the sum of 700 000 u.a. and is due to increase in the future (budget appropriations: 85O 000 u.a. for 1975, 1 300 000 u.a. for 1976).
The latter two programmes – the first being aimed mainly and the second exclusively at non–associated developing countries – constitute the first
major steps taken by the Community to provide financial and technical aid outside the framework of the Associations. They are thus proof of the Community's
will to extend its cooperation programme in the world and to make it a truly global policy.
The developments mentioned above have of course been reflected in the trend of Community aid during the first few years of the Development Decade. Prom
1970 to 1974 net Community payments increased from $222 million to about
^607 million, representing an annual growth rate of almost 29% (22$ taking
into account the depreciation of the dollar in relation to the unit of account). This means that in 1974 for the first time net payments were nearly as great
as those of the International Development Association (IDA) and even of the World Bank (^608 million and ^613 million respectively in 1973).
The main reason for this growth of Community aid is the expansion of the food aid programme. Payments here have increased more than sixfold during the period 1971 "to 1974s from ^39 million in 1970 to Sfe6l million in 1974*
Even allowing for the effect of depreciation of the dollar and of the sharp increase in the world prices of the foodstuffs delivered, the total growth of the Community programme is still high (at least 20$ annually).
The volume of net payments under the three EDFs has grown more slowly, increasing from ^145 million in 1970 to ^213 million in 1974 (up 10$ per annum in dollars and up 4«2$ per annum in units of account). Disbursements recorded "by the EIB stood at about ^30 million in 1971/72 rising to over ^45 million in 1973 and 1974*
To these figures may be added the first disbursements under the special Sahel aid scheme (^29.2 million) and under the United Nations emergency programme
(^58.8 million). The technical assistance for trade promotion and regional integration is not yet reflected in the 1974 figures since the first payments were not made until early 1975•
Community aid is still being granted on particularly favourable terms. With the exception of EIB ordinary loans, all loans are in the form of oda and the grant element of this aid varies between 90$ and nearly 100$ (DAC norm: 84$) for most recipient countries; it is even higher for the least developed countries (98$ to 100$, the norm being 90$).
Since ihe scale of food aid is growing, an increasing proportion of aid from the Community is going to non-associated developing countries. The share
given to those countries, most of which are in Asia, has grown from 18$ in 1970 to 30$ in 1973 and - because of the combined effect of food aid and the Community^ contribution to the emergency programme - to 37$ in 1974»
As far as the choice of sectors to "be aided; the EDF has been concentrating since the start of the Development Decade on rural development, industrialization, transport and communications and on the social sector. At the beginning of 1975» funds earmarked "by the third EDF for rural production accounted for
29.6% of the total allocations decided on, industrialization in the AASM for
7.2$ (as against under the second EDF and only 0.7$ under the first
EDF), transportsand communications for 37«5% an<* the social sector, where education and training costs have gone up considerably since the second
Increased attention has also been paid to schemes to promote exports and tourism.
As regards rural development, the Commission has laid stress on food crops and the processing of local products. Besides this, it has taken care that the projects financed are designed in such a way that more and more the results are adjusted to the needs and capacities of the peasant. With
this in mind the EDF has used more and more frequently the system of combining a nucleus plantation, run on industrial lines, with nearby village plantations which rely upon it for support (e.g., tea in Burundi, palms in Ivory Coast).
One of the main motives for the EDF's agricultural said industrialization schemes has long been the diversification of the economies of the AASM. This line of action has been more marked since 1971 although the Yaoundd Convention II no longer provided a special allocation for this category of aid .
The diversification projects financed between 1971 and 1974 fall into two main types. The first consists of introducing new forms of agriculture (e.g., rioe growing and stock farming in Ivory Coast, whose economy is highly dependent
on coffee, cocoa and wood exports). The second form of diversification is
aimed at setting up plants for the local industrial processing of products ,
for example oil mills, textile factories, shelling plant, cashew nut factories, tea factories, sugar refineries.
Sometimes it has "been possible to fulfil these two aims with a single project such as an agro-industrial complex comprising a plantation and the factory for processing the products (agro-industrial sugar cane project in Upper Volta).
In other cases, efforts to develop local products have meant carrying out research and experiments. In 1971» for instance, a project was launched in Mali to develop the fishing industry and this included an experiment on the protection of fish "by the removal of insects.
Besides these projects "based on the use of local products , a start has "been made on industrial diversification projects for example by the Community's commitment to finance studies for Dakarmarine scheme (a ship repair yard in Dakar) in cooperation with other aid sources.
Finally, there is another field of diversification which is "beginning to "be explored: tourism. A study carried out in Mali, for example, produced
very positive conclusions which influenced the decision taken in 1971 to build a new airport at Bamako, thus fulfilling one of the preconditions for the development of the tourist industry. Other examples are the interest rate subsidy granted for the construction of a hotel in Libreville, a subsidy for equipping national parks in Chad and another to service the Nouakchott tourist complex, etc.
In the recent past, in spite of the difficulties broughtabout by the energy crisis , the Community has seen to it that no measures are taken to adjust the balances of payments which would result in a reduction of aid to developing countries. The Community intends to continue pursuing this line of policy.
With the same aim in mind the Commission has subscribed to the decision in principle to "broaden the scope of the "oil facilities" in the International
Monetary Fund and to open a special account to reduce the interest rate "burden of the most seriously affected countries. Several Member States of the Community have made contributions as have some OPEC countries.
A welcome must also be given to the start made "by the Joint Ministerial Committee within the framework of the International Monetary Fund and the Bank on the transfer of real resources to developing countries.
4. Action in favour of least developed countries
The problems and particular needs of the least developed countries are receiving special attention and treatment geared to them in all the spheres of Community cooperation policy. This special and constant attention is in line with that underlying the Strategy, which expressly recommends additional and special measures in favour of these countries, and is expressed in practical terms in the Community's activities at world and regional level.
4.1 . In the generalized system of preferences
Here the Community has sought means to enable the least advanced countries to overcome the handicap - as regards their ability to compete - of their weaker economic status and their particularly low level of diversification as to exportable products and resources.
To this Kid the conditions of the Community's system of generalized preferences have, within the limits of the annual oeilings applicable to the duty-free entry of industrial products, allowed amounts to be fixed according to oountry, henoe ensuring aooess for everyone*
4.2 In the multilateral trade negotiations
In the Tokyo Declaration the principles laid down by the Strategy concerning the treatment to be accorded to the least developed among the developing countries are the subject of a special provision that stresses "the need
to ensure that these countries receive special treatment in the context of any general or specific measures taken in favour of the developing countries during the negotiations".
4.3 In EPF and food aid schemes
The EDF has always paid special attention to the least developed countries among the AASM (numbering eight out of the twenty–five listed by the United Nations), so as to help them catch up in their development.
The volume of aid granted to these countries under the third EDP was considerably more than in previous years, increasing from 172 million u.a.
under the first EDP to 224 million u.a. under the second and to nearly
304 million u.a. under the third EDP . These countries have also received
preferential treatment in the form of aid on very liberal terms. Under the third EDP nearly all projects in the least developed AASM have been financed
by grants with the exception of two very "soft" loans. The total grant element in aid given to these countries has therefore always been very high (see above).
The EDP has also helped these countries to increase their external aid oapacity to absorb by giving them a higher proportion of teohnical assistance loans than to the other oountries so that studies can be undertaken and
experts sent to prepare their dossiers and train their staff for the planning, exeoution, operation and maintenanoe of development projeots.
Commitments, not including budgetary aid for the Sahel.
In applying aid the EDF has tried to solve the worst handicaps holding
back these countries: land-locked situations (hence the inter-State highways for Upper Volta and Mali, for example), dependence on single crops (hence thediversificationprojectssuchasteaplantationsinBurundi), very serious financial situations (hence research into possible productive projects in Dahomey), and so on.
The poorest countries have also received special attention under the Community food aid programme as an increasing share of such aid has been allocated to them. In the 1975 programme, for example, the MSA countries have been allotted 83 of the aid up to now.
5. Expansion and diversification of production
The Strategy views technical and financial aid as important and necessary factors to complement and support the developing countries* efforts to expand and diversify their production.
The Community's development activity as a whole clearly contains many elements which are conducive directly or indirectly to the expansion and diversification of production in developing countries.
Under this specific heading can be placed the measures taken by the Community - and already described above - in the fields of:
(a) trade policy, for instance the generalized system of preferences; (b) technical assistance and trade promotion measures; and above all (c) EDF and EIB aid in the various associations*
 Review and appraisal
Preparatory committee for the Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly
Seventh Special Session of the General Assembly
Timetable of meetings for the mid-term review and appraisal of the International Development Strategy and the Seventh
Special Session of the General Assembly
2 May – 6 June New York Review and appraisal Committee
(ECOSOC subsidiary committee)
2 July – 1 August Geneva 59th meeting of ECOSOC
16 September to end December
30th Ordinary Session of the General Assembly
the above framework , deserve priority because of their pressing nature .
With that goal in mind, the Group of 77 developing countries has agreed on this very restricted and selective list of such arfeas and questions , to be used for preliminary contacts between the representatives of the Group of 77 and tho»« of the other groups: . - /
Regulation of the raw material and commodity market through integrated
of the prices of commodity and raw material exports from countries to the prices of their imports from developed
1. Foundations for the establialiment of the new international economic order were laid through the adoption by the General Assembly of the Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order and Programme of Action at its sixth special session and of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States
at its regular twenty-ninth session . This should be the starting point for" the preparation of th§ next special session of the General Assembly devoted to development and international, economic co-operation.
2. The fact that such foundations already exist should permit the special session
of the General Assembly devoted to development andj international economic fco-operation to concentrate on the consideration of those problems which, within
Access to markets of developed countries for raw materials , commodities , manufactures and semi-manufactures of developing countries .
Transfer of real resources for financing the development of developing countries and international monetary reform:
Transfer of real resources for financing the development of developing countries :
Additional development financing for developing countries , including arrangements to expand the flow of official development assistance to provide automatic mechanisms for the transfer of real resources ;
Adequate response to the United Nations Special Fund ; . >
Furthering co-operation through investment of financial resources and supply of technology and equipment to developing countries by developed countries and by developing countries in, a position to do so;
Reform of the international monetary system, so as to meet the development requirements of the developing countries :
Link between special drawing rights creation and development financing;
Full and effective participation of developing countries in decision-
Science and technology: i
Measures and programmes designed to expand the capability of developing countries to apply science and technology to development .
, Decisions on industrialization of the Lima Conference.
Restructuring of the economic and social sectors of the United Nations /To be dealt with at a later stage/ V.
Trekeuit s amarbe ,ide
2. juli – 1. august GENEVE ECOSOC's 59» session
 Progress of the developing countries during the first half of the Second Development Decade with particular reference to the Goals and. Objectives of the International Development Strategy. ;
The results of the first half of the; second development decad_e oresent !
a rather diversified picture. Most of the quantitative targets laid down
in the Strategy, relating to overall production, industrial and agricultural I
production, trade expansion and domestic savings, were achieved or almost achieved luring the period 1970 - to 1973 ( +-he last! year for which data is available).
the other hand one of ,the most important j targets was for agricultural
production, yet there was a marked failure -jfco reach anything approaching the strategy target in this sector. Moreover the aggregate results achieved for developing countries as a whole concealed vbry considerable disparities
between them. |
While it was relatively easy to identify successes or shortfalls in »-
"he achievement of the quantitative targets; outlined in the Strategy, it I
was rmich more difficult to evaluate the more general qualitative targets.
•Pie qualitative goals of the Strategy were [broad and ambitious J - to brir-o- about a more equitable distribution of incojne and wealth for promoting social
justice and efficiency of production, to raise substantially the level of
employment , to achieve a greater degree of ;inoome security , to expand and improvefacilitiesforeducation, health, nutrition, housingandsocial
welfare. The overall objective that of social development, including the eradication of mass poverty in the world, remains an elusive goal. Not­ withstanding the importance of these qualitative objectives , especially because of the pressing nature of the twin problems of structural unemployment and mass poverty, the rest of this paper foousses upon the economic results attained during the first part of the second development decade , where
oncrete data is more readily available. 2. Oferall growth
The developing countries achieved an overall growth rate of 5.?% between1970and1973, almostreachingthe, 6.0$targetforoveralleconomic
growth in the Strategy. . Given that the rate of population growth was about
2.5% per annum ( a figure which was probably only marginally exceeded according to recent estimates) then this would have led to a per capita growth rate in production of 3.1/'- per annum, a little short of the Strategy target of 3.5%. I
. Yettheseaggregateachievementsconcealedveryconsiderable disparities , and tended to divert attention from the reality that only
a third of developing country populations 'lived in countries where the
6% overall growth rate target was achieved whereas about 45$ of the population of developing countries lived . in countries which only achieved an annual growth rate of less than 2C.' per jejunum. Of these twenty four lowperformancecountries, thirteen, accountingfor6,.0ofthepopulation ofdevelopingcountries, actuallyexperiencednegativegrowthingross domestic product between 1971 and 1973. This contrasts with the most. . . fortunatesectionofthepopulationofdevelopingcountries, 10.4';:ofwhom lived in the ten countries which increased their annual production by more
than 10.0^ during this same period. j
These disparities became more acute when diverse demographic factors are taken into account. Thus more than of the population of the developing countries live in countries where per capita income actually declined between 1971 and 1973. Host of the people in this categoiy (about 36% of the population of developing countries), live in countries in which per capita income fell by 1'' or less, whereas 8.8$ of the population suffered a decline in per capita income of more than 1$. Additionally another 5$ of "the population were affected by per capita production falls reflectingspecialcircumstances, includingtwocasesofplannedproduction reductions (Kuwait and Libyan Arab Republic), but more typically the consequences of adverse weather conditions (Sahel and India) or political instability (in certain cases notably in the Fiiddle East and South East Asia). Ontheotherhandtwelvedevelopingcountries,withabout15%of the total population experinced per cipits, production increases of over
5«5$» including increases in the ra^ige between 10$ and 20$. I
The main factor behind the overall 1 achievements of developing t
countries during this period has be»n trade , and the results achieved in this sector were encouraging. The trad" £>f developing countries increased
 bjr about 8;p per annum, exceeding the yss target in the Stratepy, and the target for developing country imports was:'also exceeded.'
Yet once again, the overall success in the trade field reflected a diversity of development situations. The gains in trade were made lar-relv inWesternAsiaandintheoilproducingcountries, andleastprogress
was made in Africa, and South and East Asia. The trade deficits' of non-oi! %
exporting developing countries were deteriorating by 1974 and their overall deficit is expected to rise from $ 29 thousand million in 1974 to
fi41thousandmillionin1975* Thusthe[overalltradefiguresdonot properly reflect the variations ir. the advantages accruing to developing countries as a result of primary material price increases.
Moreover, the overall successes in the field of trade were achieved because of the buoyancy, of international commodity markets between 1971 and 1973 and because of the associated-rise in prices for these commodities, rather than as a result of positive trade liberalisation measures or the implementation of the International Development Strategy. Indeed prices forcommoditiesfromdevelopingcountriesroseonaverageby17/:' peryear
overall between 1971 and 1973 , the greater part of this increase being accounted for by the dramatic increase in oil prices. At the same time, the terms of trade of the non-oil exporting countries deteriorated and are currently expected to benefit the developed countries to the tune of $7«5 thousand million in 1975*
4• Domestic savings
Given overall successes in the field of trade developing countries
were on aggregate able to mobilize resources in line with the target of a
20/osavingsratiobyI98O. IntheAfricanregiontheaveragesavings
ration between 1971 and 1973 rose by per annum, at a fractionally
greater rate than in South and ?ast Asia. This took the African average
above 20,i overall gross domestic savings' during that period in comparison >\
with16%forAsia. Savingsratesinthe: developingcountriesofthe Western Hemisphere continued to decline in terms of past performance in the I960's but still achieved a rate of !Q< in the period in question.
The countries in which there were seriou.s declines in savings ratios nearly all have problems of political instability or special difficulties, meetlycountries in the Indo China peninsula and Bangladesh.
 Another successful sector in overall terras was that of industrial development where the aggregate target of Op industrial growth' per annum was reached
and marginally exceeded. 1 Again development in this sector was not even between developing countries "but encouraging progress was made in parts
of Asia, and Africa, with "implications for the generation of industrial employment. The very, high rates of growth in employed industrial labour force in Brazil , Iran , Republic of Korea and Singapore were offset by very poor performance in most other developing countries, including those with
Paradoxically the success in economic diversification in terms of growth of the manufacturing .sector did nothing to resolve , and indeed accentuated , the problem of unemployment in developing countries . The
problem of structural unemployment became more and more serious during
the first half of the decade, as industrial growth failed to absorb labour resources no longer involved in agricultural production or in traditional sectors . Whilst industrial development made a substantial' and vital con­ tribution to the growth of gross domestic production it did not contribute
in anything like the same proportion to the creation of employment opportuniti This implied that the model of development chosen by some developing
countries might in some cases be inappropriate , ^resulting in untenable planning assumptions, especially on the likely absorption of labo\xr by
industry from increasingly modernized agriculture. ?
1 One conclusion from this failure was tha^ the. relationship between
agricultural production and manufacturing in developing countries should
be a much closer one in which manufacturing and; secondary processing
activities can grow upon the secure base of a viable rural economy.
Unfortunately, it is in this agricultural sector that there is ample I
evidence of the most major failure in'the implementation "of the "^ ~ International Development Strategy. Agricultural production rose overall only at 2.0$ per annum, that is , at a lower rate than population increase
(2.5°(- per year) and at only half the 4% rate laid down as the Strategy
target. The implied actual decline in per capita food production'
 ,:i developing,countries contributed materially to ithe -world food crisis dlst access to key agricultural inputs became more difficult and ; cpensive. Justaspopulationgrowthoutstrippedfoodproductionin ;veloping countries, so the creation of employment opportunities in
agriculture, as in industry, did not keep pace with/the 2.lci overall annual increase Jin the labour force of developing countries, v
The failures in the implementation of the International Development !
Strategy, and paradoxically some of the successes; also, show that the capacity of developing countries for. economio sel£-reliance on a national
or regional basis is insufficient. Of course shortfalls, in "theV"■ >' ; 1 ' implementation of the Strategy reflect 'poor performance on the part of developed countries in the implementation of Strategy policy measures.
Nonetheless developing countries would be in a better position to resolve
more of their own problems if measures for . trade Cooperation generally and
for regional integration between developing countries could be 'increased with -the objectiveofgreatereconomicself-relianceonajnational. andregionalbasis, " It has been widely recognised that developing , covpitries remain too dependant
upon the export of raw materials , which in turn makes them dependant upon
the uncertainties of international, commodity markets. The veiy fact that
some developing countries did so well during the iboom period of 1971 "to
1973 is illustrative that dependance upon such fluctuations is not an ' adequatebasisforplanningfordevelopment. Asjsoonasthesefluctuations reflect downturns instead of upturns developing qountries are immediately > . placed at a massive disadvantage and have to savagely cut the development
plans which appeared practical and necessary before these fluctuations occurred. In fact the necessity for development remains but'the practicality diminishes.
Emergency measures are clearly inadequate to deal with such fluctuations, it I•' .i
is the fluctuations themselves which somehow have to be "ironed out" or their negative consequences reduced. \ . j:. - .
Hence greater emphasis must be given to viable agricultural and
industrial development in tandem with each other] to regional and sub­
regional integration between developing countries on the lines already
generally laid down in the Strategy, to foster actional and outward-looking exnansion of trade. The orientation of policy measures and. of development „ - plans towards the concept of economic self-reliance will be one way of attempting to reduce disparities between countries and to reduce inequalities within developing economies.
i' i__ _J_ tt_J_ occupée .Longtemps xee ritai/B-uniB.
Réunions officieuses . 0-
Nations Unies"
Réunions officieuses
Nations Unies.
