In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
hat .
on aid to shipbuilding
(presented "by Mr. VOUEL)
– This question is on the agenda for the 447"th meeting of the Commission, on 19 October 1977.
To : Members of the Commission Mr. SCHLIEDER
 Memo from Mr VOUEL
Subject : Proposal for a fourth Directive on aid to shipbuilding Background
1.1 . State of the shipbuilding industry
Over recent years the state of the shipbuilding industry worldwide has worsened considerably. Excessive surplus shipping capacity has been created and as a result new orders placed by shipbuilders have fallen off rapidly ; shipyards' order books are thus becoming empty.
Substantial surplus capacity worldwide is therefore forecast for the years to come ; it may be estimated at 40 % of the industry 's produc­ tion capacity. In these circumstances the competition from certain non-member countries (Japan, Korea, etc.) is being felt more sharply.
Many Community shipyards can no longer meet this competition and are having difficulty in remaining in business. Employment in the ship­ yards can no longer be maintained at the level of 1974 and 1975. The Member States are being obliged to introduce national measures to tackle the crisis which will most probably continue beyond 1980.
Possible Community action
The Community cannot remain indifferent to this development. When Parliament adopted the Resolution on the Shipbuilding industry in February ( 1 ), the Commission undertook to take action without delay . Moreover, discussions with the Member States have revealed that action is required at Community level and- that the Member States definitely prefer to pursue the action defined in the threee previous Directives by adapting their guidelines to the current crisis conditions affecting the industry.
(1) Resolution of 10 February 1977, 181 e/77 ASS 109.
1.3 . Guidelines for the Directive
1.3.1 . Previous Council Directives on aid to shipbuilding were mainly designed to harmonize intervention in the field and bring down the intensity
of aids most damaging to competition between Member States such as production aids. Moreover, these Directives have been gradually extended to forms of aids not originally covered. This is true parti­ cularly of the Third Directive which expires at the end of 1977 and contains provisions on investment and rescue aids. The new Directive follows the same lines although it has been adapted to the particu­ larly difficult conditions mentioned at 1.1 .
1.3.2. Pursuing the guideline contained in the previous directives on with­ drawal of production aids, the draft Fourth Directive excludes the granting of such assistance under normal circumstances. However, to meet the crisis, specific provisions have been made authorizing such assistance provided it is bound up with restructuring the industry and does not affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest. This boils down to stating that this assistance can only be tolerated if it is used exclusively to align Community shipyard prices with those of non-member countries and does not dis­ courage orders which would normally have been placed with other Community shipyards if no assistance at all had been granted. '
1.3.3. As far as certain aids limited directly to the purchase of ships
by shipowners are concerned, checks are to be made after the assis­ tance has been granted to prevent Member States using it to encourage the placing of orders with national yards only.
This would not only create discrimination among shipbuilders but restrict the shipowners' freedom to order ships where they find the most favourable economic terms . -
 1.4. The Directive in the Light of industrial measures
In preparing the draft Fourth Directive account was taken of all generally available information on the industry. The OECD, Commission and specialists in the field more or less agree on the main probable trends in the industry up to 1980. These were briefly described at 1.1 . National experts have generally confirmed this information when discussing the proposal for a Directive at a series of multilateral meetings .
The proposal takes full account of the industry's structural problems and therefore must not be considered as a simple legal framework de­ signed to limit the granting of assistance ; it represents an essential factor in the approach to the industry.
Although this proposal could later be usefully supplemented by other industrial measures it must be pointed out that it constitutes a suf­ ficiently coherent unit in itself and does not now need to be introduced into a more complex framework . On the contrary , it must be implemented
to provide a Community framework for national measures to rescue the industry from the most imminent difficulties .
The proposal should be transmitted to the Council as soon as possible so that discussions can be held and a decision taken before the end
of the year.
The Directive 's flexible approach
In preparing this Directive emphasis was placed on the close link between the proposed crisis measures and their period of implementa­ tion. Such measures are only warranted in cases of serious difficulty and therefore the Directive provides for possible amendments, more particularly if conditions in the industry should improve. Such steps could be taken if discussions at international level produce practical results or if market conditions improve .
2. The Directive 's components
2.1. Production and sales aid (Articles 1 and 2)
The Directive does not authorize production aids in normal circumstances.
This development follows from the gradual reduction of ceilings in pre­ vious Directives.
The measures concerning credit facilities for sales refer to the rele­ vant OECD arrangement.
It must be stressed that for ship conversions, the permitted threshold may be reduced to 1 500 grt in cases of alignment to terms offered by a shipyard in a non-member country .
This Article provides for prior notification of schemes involving invest­ ment aids which have the effect of increasing production capacity. In this way, the Commission can raise objections to schemes which would
be contrary to the common interest ( 1 ).
Moreover, the Commission must be informed every six months of all deci­ sions on the granting of investment aids in the industry exceeding
5 million EUA. In this way, the Commission has an overall picture
of investments made in the industry .
2.3. Aid to rescue and industry (Article 5)
This Article states that aid to rescue shipbuilding, ship-conversion or ship-repair undertakings may, be considered compatible with the com­ mon market provided that the measure is a step towards an acceptable longer-term solution. This type of intervention is likely to prevent sudden shipyard closures having a disastrous effect on employment.
DG III would like prior notification of all assisted investments . The Danish, Dutch and French Delegations agree.
2.4. Anti-crisis aid (Article 6)
This Article is designed to enable the Member States to take coordina­ ted action to meet the crisis .
Under this Article, aid and notably production aid may be considered compatible with the common market provided that they are linked to the restructuring aims and are not likely to affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest.
Moreover, this Article provides for the establishment of a list of aid schemes considered compatible with the common market.
2.5. Non-discrimination clauses (Articles 7 and 8)
These Articles state that assistance granted to shipowners and measures for shipbuilding, ship-conversion and ship-repair may not discriminate against products from other Member States.
Article 8 also states that the Member States must regularly submit infor­ mation on decisions to grant assistance to shipowners ( 1 ).
2.6. Review clauses (Article 9)
This Article specifies that the Directive may be amended if the situation improves or if international discussions produce practical results. The Directive thus follows the strategy of our OECD partners who reached agreement on adapting measures to actual crisis conditions.
(1) When Article 7 was being discussed DG III put forward a proposal making aid to shipowners compatible with the aims of restructuring shipbuil­ ding. The Dutch, Irish, French and Italian Delegations agreed to
this proposal . Certain other Member States expressed reservations . They felt that this would penalize European shipowners with respect
to their competitors by imposing additional conditions on ship pur­ chase .
 2.7. Duration of the Directive
Since this Directive provides more particularly for measures to meet the crisis, it should not continue for more than three years. The si­ tuation should be examined at the end of this period to determine whether these measures are still required or are possibly inadequate.
Position of the Member States
The Member States have expressed their agreement with pursual of the Community action which has taken the form of a series of Directives on aid to shipbuilding. National experts have generally approved both the preamble and the operative parts of the draft Fourth Directive. However, there are differences of opinion on a number of points.
The Directive is a compromise reached at discussions arranged by
the Commission and constitutes a realistic proposal with a real chan­ ce of being approved by the Council according to schedule. The dif­ ferences of opinion cover the following :
Ship-repair (Article 1 and 5)
Certain delegations do not want to include ship-repair in the Direc­ tive (Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom). The draft Directive includes this activity because it is complemen­ tary to shipbuilding.
This article covers prior notification of certain investment aids. The German and British Delegations have expressed reservations, for they consider that this obligation would be inconsistent with the automatic procedures of certain regional aid systems.
3.3. Anti-crisis aid (Article 6)
The Commission usually retains the right to decide whether assistance may be considered compatible with the common market within the mea­ ning of Annex III to Article 6. .
Some Member States wonder what will happen to their aid schemes, notably the French and British cost escalation schemes. These countries are
against these measures being described as crisis measures. Aid to shipowners (Article 7)
Article 8 raise legal problems for some delegations (Federal Republic
of Germany, Belgium and France). They are still uncertain as to whether the EEC Treaty articles on aids apply to shipping. However in the opinion of the Commission based on the decisions of the Court of Justice these articles apply entirely to maritime transport.
France and Denmark feel that the draft Fourth Directive should contain provisions for checking to what extent State administration of holdings
in shipbuilding, ship-conversion and ship-repair undertakings is likely
to distort competition . However , most Member States feel that the
question has not been studied sufficiently to be included in the Directive. It has been agreed that the Commission will look into the matter further and continue discussions with the Member States with a view to making proposals .
In view of the foregoing, it is proposed that the Commission approve :
the text of the Directive on aid to shipbuilding and the preceding explanatory memorandum ;
transmission of this proposal for a Directive together with the expla­ natory memorandum to the Council suggesting that Parliament and the Economic and Social Committee be consulted ;
the covering letter to the President of the Council.
Whereas 7 - Line 9
Whereas , however , the progressive reduction and withdrawal of such aids
should also be dependent on a return to normal conditions of competition on the world market .
The German Delegation has reservation^ on this point.
Whereas 15
The German delegation has a reservation on this point. *
The German, British and Italian Delegations consider that this Directive should not cover ship repair and wish to exctude it from this Article and Articles 5 and 6.
The Italian Delegation would like to see a matching clause for ship fepair if the proposed text remains unchanged.
The German. Belgian and British Delegations have reservations on th? incLw sion of vessels for work at sea in this Article. 1
The Italian Delegation would like drilling rigs to be included. It also wants conversion work required pursuant to international agreements to be included .
The British and German Delegations cannot agree to this Article*
The Danish, French and Dutch Delegations have stated that the/ agree with a proposal from DG III providing for notification of all a1i$ scfiewes for investments .
The British Delegation feels that the second sentence should be amer^jd to read : "As and when normal competitive conditions have been restored such aid shall be progressively reduced and shall allow
The French and British Delegations have stressed that their cost escala­ tion schemes cannot be considered crisis measures and therefore should not be included in Annex III .
Many delegations have questioned the legal basis of this article ; particularly the German, French and Belgian delegations . In Ihe Com­ missions view, based on Decisions of the Court of Justice concerning State Aids, the articles of the Treaty on aids are fully applicable to Maritime transport .
The Dutch , Irish , French and Italian Delegations agree in principle with DG Ill 's proposal to make aids to shipowners compatible with the aims of restructuring .
 The 1.
of the
of 1977
on aid to shipbuilding
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament,
Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
Whereas the position of shipbuilding has considerably worsened during
the last few years, and Community shipyards face a general fall in demand and acute price competition on a contracted world market.; whereas the result of this has been a serious reduction in orders on hand, aggravating the structural problems of the industry and indeed threatening its exis­ tence ;
Whereas a sound and competitive shipbuilding - inetas-try is - :necessary to the Community and contributes to its economic and social development, as a substantial market for a range of industries, incliuSing those using- ad­
vanced technology, and as an employer in a number jo'f C0;miunity regions; whereas this is also the case with ship conversion, and slip repairing!;
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 92(3) (d) and 113 thereof,
7. Whereas if the situation in the industry were normal the continuation
of aids to production would not be justified since they would serve only to protect the industry and would not bring about any solid and lasting improvement of the Community shipbuilding industry's competitiveness on the world market ; whereas , however , such aids may be permitted in the present crisis provided that they are introduced on a temporary basis,
to allow the industry to meet the new market conditions, and thatthey are progressively reduced to encourage the industry to adapt to these condi­ tions; whereas it should be possible to grant such aid with enough flexi­ bility to allow Community shipyards to meet particular market situations and which can be complemented in the event of a worsening crisis ; whereas such aid should be subject to control to ensure that distortions of com­ petition within the Community contrary to the common interest are avoided and that the measures are linked to the restructuring of the industry;
8. Whereas in order to resolve the present difficulties facing the industry the member countries of the OECD have approved general guidelines provi­ ding that, in order to correct the serious structural imbalance in the industry, all shipbuilding countries are to take steps to ensure that the inevitable reduction of world shipbuilding capacity is fairly distributed and proceeds with as few harmful effects as possible; whereas the Commu­ nity, in applying this agreement, intends to pursue its efforts to ensure that the burden of the crisis is shared more evenly, by defining a secto­ ral approach on a Community level as well as on the international Level^
particularly in the context of the OECD.
9. Whereas Council Directive 75/432/EEC on .aid ,t<S $hipbu'iIding, which was ■ i ■ : . * *"• : ..si-*"-
. designed to correct distortions in eon^eti.tiojn; on ilhe^ wor Id market , has helped to reduce and to harmonize, direct aids to ship£>uiIdingrin the Community; whereas that Directive expires on 31,^December 1977;
 10. Whereas even in this difficult situation distortions in competition on the world market have been reduced through a series of undertakings con­ cluded by the main shipbuilding countries within the framework of the OECD with the object of harmonizing export credit conditions for ships; whereas ,< within this same organization , the principal shipbuilding coun­ tries have concluded a general understanding which provides for the progressive reduction of specific aid measures which distort competition in the shipbuilding industry ;
11. Whereas production structures would be adjusted to the new market condi­ tions so thtft undertakings in the industry are eventually enabled to follow general economic developments anc? meet competition on the world market without the support of intervention by the public authorities
and so that the investment efforts of the industry are compatible with the world balance between supply and demand;
Whereas , furthermore , effective action requires a solution covering all aids and interventions directly or indirectly affecting competition and trading conditions on the market for the building, conversion or repair of ships;
Whereas in these circumstances aid or intervention aimed at the tempora­ ry maintenance of a shipbuilding, ship-conversion or ship-repair under- • taking should be limited to that necessary if serious social problems
are to be
avoided ;
1h. Whereas these measures/may not create ill effects for the competitive .
,in favour of national.shipowners .
position of other shipyards or for the fleet structures of tih£- Member States; whereas such measures should in no case discriminate against certain Community shipyards
15. Whereas, in order to remedy a certain lack of iiWtfe^pe'netration in; thj? . Community market , it is important that EEC shipowners '- address th&ir .. calls for tenders as far as possible al$6 to gtinpyards in the other Member States .
Has adopted this Directive :
For the purposes of the present Directive the following terms and expressions shall have the meanings hereunder assigned to them :
a) "Building" mean building, in the Community, of the following metal-hulled, seagoing vessels :
- merchant vessels for the carriage of cargo and/or passengers, of not less than 150 gross registered tons ; v
- fishing vessels of not less than 150 gross registered tons;
- dredgers or ships for other works at sea of not less than 150 gross
registered tons;
- tugs of not less than 500 hp.
" Conversion"' means conversion of metal hulled seagoing vessels of not less than 5,000 gross registered tons , on condition that . the conversion
operations entail radical alterations to the cargo plan, the hull or the propulsion system.
" Repair " means repairs' to the vessels referred to under ( a ) above .
d) "Sale" means sales of vessels referred to under a) to national shipowners, to shipowners in other Member countries and those in third countries. '
Aids and interventions in the from of credit facilities may be considered
as compatible with the common market ori condition they respect the conditions forseen in the 0ECD Council Resolution of 18 July 1974 or agreements repla­ cing this resolution : ' f ;
- in favour of all sales or conversion of vessels; . j ,
- in favour of the conversion of vessels pf less..than 1,500 gross register^
tons where they are acting in alignement with ternjs . offered b)£ a e6ntract$r of a country not signatory to the 0ECD resolution jdafed ^18 Ju|#
 Notwhithstanding the particular provisions of this Directive, the general provisions of Articles 92 and 93 of the EEC Treaty are fully applicable to the shipbuilding and ship-conversion and ship-repair industry.
Aid to investment
1. A Member State which intends to grant aid to investment in a shipyard which would have the effect to increasing the yard's existing production capacity shall notify this plan to the Commission, pur'suant to the provi­ sions of Article 93(3) of the Treaty. Such plans cannot be put into ef­ fect before the Commission has given its agreement.
In assessing such plans, the Commission shall take particular account of any reductions in capacity in other yards in the same Member State which offset this increase .
2. Thfe Member States shall inform the Commission of their decisions to grant aid to investment in shipbuilding, conversion or repair yards where the amount of such investment is in excess of five million units of account. This information shall be provided every year in the form of a table based on the specimen at Annex I : on 1st March in respect of decisions taken in the second half of the previous calendar year and on 1st Septem­ ber in respect of those taken in the first h5»If of the current calendar
Aids to rescue an undertaking
Aids and interventions intended as a temporary solution for thejrescue
of a shipbuilding , ship-conversion or ship-repair wdertak ing-Se^ditij -a . ■■. .W.
solution to the problems confronting the undertakif^?|(k>rrcerned, #ner& ;; this aid or intervention is warranted fey reason of'-acute. social pro­
blems may be considered compatible with the Common Market Directive. Plans for such aid shall , pursuant to Article 93(3 ) of the Treaty , be notified to the Commission individually and in advance. They cannot be put into effect before the Commission has given its agreement .
Anti-crisis aids
1. Production aids and interventions can be considered compatible with the Common Market under this Directive if they are intended to alleviate the serious crisis, which is causing a substantial reduction in orders and
a decrease in production. Such aid shall be progressively reduced and shall allow the shipyards to confront the difficulties resulting from
the crisis; aids shall be granted only if linked to a plan to restruc­ ture the industry so as to make it competitive and able to operate without aid .
2. The Commission shall be given prior notification of any plan for indivi­ dual intervention measures under the scheme referred to in paragraph 1 above where the project is in competition with an offer from another Member State. The aid planned shall not be granted before the Commission has given its agreement .
3. The Member States shall provide a table, for the exclusive use of the Commission, based on the specimen at Annex II, setting out the decisions on the aid and intervention referred to in paragraph 1 and an estimate
of their effects. They shall also provide a report on the implementation of the restructuring plan.
This information shall provided on 1st March of each year in respect of decisions taken during the second half of the previous calendar year, and on 1st September in respect of those taken in the first half of the cur­ rent calendar year .
 The Commission will verify on the basis of these reports whether the attempts to realise the aims of restructuring mentioned in paragraph 1 of this article are contributing effectively to the adaptation of the sector tothenew conditions of the world market of shipbuilding.
The Commission shall regularly draw up an overall report to serve as the basis for discussion with national experts.
4. Interventions in the form of price guarantees can be considered as being compatible with the Common Market under the present Directive subject to the conditions noted in paragraphs 1 and 4 above being respected.
5. The aid and intervention measures listed in Annex III are considered com­ patible with the Common Market under paragraph 1 of the present Article.
The Commission shall modify the list at Annex III in the light of deci­ sions taken regarding new schemes or existing aid schemes.
Aid for ship purchase shall not be granted to shipowners in a Member State in a way which discriminates against shipyards in other Member States.
A biannual report on aid granted on a selective basis to domestic shipowners shall be made by the Member States, on 1st March in respect of decisions taken in the second half of the previous calendar year and on 1st September in res­
pect of those taken in the first half of the current calendar year.
This information shall be proveded in the form of a table based on the speci­ men at Annex IV. The Commission shall draw up reports at regular intervals summarizing the information supplied.
These reports shall be discussed with the Member States in order to ensure that competition between shipbuilders is not distorted by such aid. These provisions shall be without prejudice to any future Community rules in this field .
The Member States shall refrain from any intervention measures to promote within their national territories the building, conversion or repair of ships as refered to in article 1 and the manufacture of products intended to form part of such ships other than those provided for in Article 3
to 7 or those considered compatible with the common market under Articles 92 and 93 of the Treaty.
The Counci I* acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Com­ mission, shall amend this Directive as and when appropriate.
Such amendment may follow an improvement in demand or favourable develop­ ments in international contacts .
This directive shall apply until 31 December 1980. Article 11
This directive is addressed to the Member States.
Where applicable , indicate whether part of development programme
Description of investment
Purpose of iveât mer»t(1 )
Amount of investment
Form of assistance
Table of investment aid under Article 5
percentage of the investment
 and
Type of vessels
Gross registered tons
Information to be furnished by Member States concerning the aid
C1) Grant equivalent is calculated by discounting at a rate of 8x. Where
payment is by instalments, the relevant grant equivalents are shown in the table relating to the period in which the payments were made.
Financial effect, as a percentage of the contract
List of aids considered to be compatible with
the Common Market in application of Article 7 paragraph 1
Aid measure for ship-building notified to the Commission on the 22.3.77 which was the subject of the Commission's letter dated 1/ 7/ 77 advising the Dutch Government that the Commission had no objections regarding the measure.
Aid measure for ship-building notified to the Commission on the 18/ 2/ 77 which was the subject of the Commission 's letter dated 1/7/77 advising the British Government that the Commission had no objections regarding the measure.
Type of vessel
Form of aid
as a percentage of the contract
Country of building
Information on aid to shipowners, to be furnished "by Member States pursuant to Article 8
Draft letter to the President at the Council
I enclose a proposal for a new Directive on aid to shipbuilding. In view of its signif icance , the Commission suggests that the Council consult Parliament and Economic and Social Committee, pointing out to them that the Council ought to take a decision on this proposal before 31 December 1977 since the current Directive 75/ 432/ EEC of
10 July 1975 expires then.
I have the honour to be, Sir, etc...
1 motorboat with echo-sounder
1 deep-sea fishing boat 1 pipe-laying barge
hat .
Proposal for a COUNCIL . DIRECTIVE • /
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
State of the shipbuilding industry
Over recent years the state of the shipbuilding industry worldwide has worsened considerably. Excessive surplus shipping capacity has been
as a result new orders placed by shipbuilders have fallen ; consequently shipyards ' order books are becoming empty .
Many Community shipyards can no longer meet this competition and are having difficulty in remaining in business. Employment in the ship­ yards can no longer be maintained at the level of 1974 and 1975. The Member States are being obliged to introduce national measures to tackl the crisis which will most probably continue beyond 1980.
created and off rapidly
years to come ; it may be estimated at 40 % of the industry's produc­ tion capacity. In these circumstances the competition from certain non-member countries (Japan, Korea, etc.) is being felt more sharply.
worldwide surplus capacity is forecast for the
2. Possible Community action
The Community cannot remain indifferent to this development. When Parliament adopted the Resolution on the Shipbuilding industry in February ( 1 ), the Commission undertook to take action without delay . Moreover, discussions with the Member States have revealed that action is required at Community level and that the Member States definitely prefer to pursue the action defined in the threee previous Directives by adapting their guidelines to the current crisis conditions affecting the industry .
) Resolution of 10 February 1977, 181 e/77 ASS 109.
1.3 . Guidelines for the Directive
1.3.1. Previous Council Directives on aid to shipbuilding were mainly designed to harmonize intervention in the field and bring down the intensity
of aids most damaging to competition between Member States such as production aids . Moreover , these Directives have been gradually extended to forms of aids not originally covered. This is true parti­ cularly of the Third Directive which expires at the end of 1977 and contains provisions on investment and rescue aids. The new Directive follows the same lines although it has been adapted to the particu­
larly difficult conditions mentioned at 1.1 .
1.3.2. Pursuing the guideline contained in the previous directives on with­ drawal of production aids, the draft Fourth Directive excludes the granting of such assistance under normal circumstances . However , to meet the crisis, specific provisions have been made authorizing such assistance provided it is bound up with restructuring the industry and does not affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest. This boils down to stating that this assistance can only be tolerated if it is used exclusively to align Community shipyard prices with those of non-member countries and does not dis­ courage orders which would normally have been placed with other Community shipyards if no assistance at all had been granted. '
i 1.3.3. As far as certain aids limited directly to the purchase of ships
j by shipowners are concerned, checks are to be made after the assis­
tance has been granted to prevent Member States using it to encourage the placing of orders with national yards only.
This would not only create discrimination among shipbuilders but
restrict the shipowners' freedom to order ships where they find the
most favourable economic terms .
The Directive in the Light of industrial measures
In preparing the draft Fourth Directive account was taken of all generally available information on the industry. The OECD, Commis­ sion and specialists in the field more or less agree on the main probable trends in the industry up to 1980. These were briefly described in 1.1. National experts have generally confirmed this
information when discussing the proposal for a Directive at a series of multilateral meetings .
The proposal takes full account of the industry's structural problems and therefore must not be considered as a simple legal framework designed to limit the granting of assistance ; it represents an essential factor in the approach to the industry.
The Directive 's flexible approach
In preparing this Directive emphasis was placed on the close link between the proposed crisis-measures and their period of implemen­ tation. Such measures are only warranted in cases of serious diffi­ culty and therefore the Directive provides for possible amendments, more particularly if conditions in the industry should improve. Such steps could be taken if discussions at international level produce practical results or if market conditions improve.
2. The Directive 's components
2.1. Production and sales aid (Articles 1 and 2)
The Directive does not authorize production aids in normal circumstances. This development follows from the gradual reduction of ceilings in pre­ vious Directives .
The measures concerning credit facilities for sales refer to the rele­ vant OECD arrangement .
It must be stressed that for ship conversions, the permitted threshold may be reduced to 1 500 grt in cases of alignment to terms offered by a shipyard in a non-member country .
This Article provides for prior notification of schemes involving invest­ ment aids which have the effect of increasing production capacity. In this way, the Commission can raise objections to schemes which would
be contrary to the common interest.
Moreover, the Commission must be informed every six months of all deci­ sions on the granting of investment aids in the industry exceeding
5 million EUA. In this way, the Commission has an overall picture
of investments made in the industry .
2.3. Aid to rescue and industry (Article 5)
This Article states that aid to rescue shipbuilding, ship-conversion or ship-repair undertakings may be considered compatible with the com­ mon market provided that the measure is a step towards an acceptable longer-term solution. This type of intervention is likely to prevent sudden shipyard closures having a disastrous effect on employment.
2.4. Anti-crisis aid (Article 6)
This Article is designed to enable the Member States to take coordina­ ted action to meet the crisis .
Under this Article, aid and notably production aid may be considered compatible with the common market provided that they are linked to the restructuring aims and are not likely to affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest.
Moreover, this Article provides for the establishment of a list of aid schemes considered compatible with the common market.
2.5. Non-discrimination clauses (Articles 7 and 9)
These Articles state that assistance granted to shipowners and measures
for shipbuilding, ship-conversion and ship-repair may not discriminate ι
against products from other Member States .
Article 8 also states that the Member States must regularly submit infor­ mation on decisions to grant assistance to shipowners.
Review clauses (Article 10)
This Article specifies that the Directive may be amended if the situation improves or if international discussions produce practical results. The Directive thus follows the strategy of our OECD partners who reached agreement on adapting measures to actual crisis conditions.
 2.7. Duration of the Directive
Since this Directive provides particularly for measures to meet the crisis, it should not continue for more than three years. The si­ tuation should be examined at the end of this period to determine whether these measures are still required or possibly are inadequate .
on aid to shipbuilding
The Council of the European Communities ,
1. Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community/ and in particular Articles 92(3) (d) and 113 thereof,
2. Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
3. Having regard to the Opinion of the European Parliament,
4. Having regard to the Opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,
5. Whereas the position of shipbuilding has considerably worsened during
the last few years, and Community shipyards face a general fall in demand and acute price competition on a contracted world market; whereas the result of this has been a serious reduction in orders on hand, aggravating the structural problems of the industry and indeed threatening its exis­ tence ;
6. Whereas a sound and competitive shipbuilding industry is necessary to the Community and contributes to its economic and social development, as a substantial market for a range of industries, including those using ad­
vanced technology, and as an employer in a number of Community regions; whereas this is also the case with ship conversion and ship repairing;
 7. Whereas if the situation in the industry were normal the continuation
of aids to production would not be justified since they would serve only to protect the industry and would not bring about any solid and lasting improvement of the Community shipbuilding industry's competitiveness on the world market ; whereas , however , such aids may be permitted in the present crisis provided that they are introduced on a temporary basis,
to allow the industry to meet the new market conditions, and thatthey are progressively reduced to encourage the industry to adapt to these condi­ tions; whereas it should be possible to grant such aid with enough flexi­ bility to allow Community shipyards to meet particular market situations and which can be complemented in the event of a worsening crisis ; whereas such aid should be subject to control to ensure that distortions of com­ petition within the Community contrary to the common interest are avoided and that the measures are linked to the restructuring of the industry;
8. Whereas in order to resolve the present difficulties facing the industry the member countries of the OECD have approved general guidelines provi­ ding that, in order to correct the serious structural imbalance in the industry, all shipbuilding countries are to take steps to ensure that the inevitable reduction of world shipbuilding capacity is fairly distributed and proceeds with as few harmful effects as possible; whereas the Commu­
nity, in applying this agreement, intends to pursue its efforts to ensure that the burden of the crisis is shared more evenly, by defining a secto­ ral approach on a Community level as well as on the international level
particularly in the context of the OECD.
9. Whereas Council Directive 75/ 432/ EEC on aid to shipbuilding , which was designed to correct distortions in competition on the world market, has helped to reduce and to harmonize direct aids to shipbuilding in the Community; whereas that Directive expires on 31 December 1977;
10. Whereas even in this difficult situation distortions in competition on
the world market have been reduced through a series of undertakings con­ cluded by the main shipbuilding countries within the framework of the
OECD with the object of harmonizing export credit conditions for ships ; whereas, within this same organization, the principal shipbuilding coun­ tries have concluded a general understanding which provides for the progressive reduction of specific aid measures which distort competition in the shipbuilding industry ;
11. Whereas production structures should be adjusted to the new market conditions so that undertakings in the industry are eventually enabled to follow general economic developments and meet competition on the world market without the support of intervention by the public authori­ ties and so that the investment efforts of the industry are compatible with the world balance between supply and demand ; whereas, in its ap­ praisal of the aids which are concerned by the Directive, the Commis­ sion should also take account of common objectives to restore the sector's health in the Community as a whole, when such objections have been defined by the Council ;
12. Whereas, furthermore, effective action requires a solution covering all aids and interventions directly or indirectly affecting competition and trading conditions on the market for the building, conversion or repair of ships ;
13. Whereas in these circumstances aid or intervention aimed at the tempora­ ry maintenance of a shipbuilding, ship-conversion or ship-repair under­ taking should be limited to that necessary if serious social problems are to be avoided ;
14. Whereas the measures in favour of national shipowners may have harmful effects on the competitive position of other shipyards or on the struc­ ture of the Member States, shipping industries ; whereas such mea­ sures should in no case discriminate against certain Community shipyards;
15. Whereas, in order to remedy a certain lack of interpenetration inthe Com­ munity market, it is important that EEC shipowners address their calls
for tenders as far as possible also to shipyards in the other Member States.
Has adopted this Directive :
- merchant vessels for the carriage of less than 150 gross registered tons ;
cargo and / or passengers , of
For the purposes of the present Directive the following terms and expressions shall have the meanings hereunder assigned to them :
" Building " means the building , in the Community / of the following hulled , seagoing vessels :
- fishing vessels of not less than 150 gross registered tons;
- dredgers or ships for other works at sea of not less than 150 gross
registered tons;
- tugs of not less than 500 hp.
b) "Conversion" means the conversion of metal hulled seagoing vessels of not
less than 5,000 gross registered tons, aPart fr°m the exception mentioned in Article 2 >on condition that the conversion operations entail radical alte­ rations to the cargo plan, the hull or the propulsion system.
i c) "Repair" means the repair of the vessels referred to under (a) above.
d) "Sale" means the sale of vessels referred to under (a) above to national
shipowners,to shipowners in other Member countries and to those in third countries .
1 Aids and interventions in the from of credit facilities may be considered
• compatible with the common market on condition they respect the conditions
set out in the 0ECD Council Resolution of 18 July 1974,or in agreements repla­ cing that resolution -, in the following cases :
_ for all sales or conversions of vessels ;
i - for the conversion of vessels of not Less than 1,500 gross registered tons where there is ■ alignement with terms offered by a contractor
of a country not signatory to the 0ECD resolution 18 July 1974.
Notwhithstanding the particular provisions of this Directive, the general provisions of Articles 92 and 93 of the EEC Treaty are fully applicable to the shipbuilding and ship-conversion and ship-repair industry.
Aid to investment
1. A Member State which intends to grant aid, in application of any aid sys­ tem whatsoever , to an individual investment project in a shipyard ,
which would have the effect of increasing the yard's existing production capacity shall notify this plan to the Commission, pursuant to the provi­
sions of Article 93(3) of the Treaty. Such plans cannot be put into ef­ fect before the Commission has given its agreement.
In assessing such plans, the Commission shall take particular account
of any reductions in capacity in other yards in the same Member State which offset this increase and of the regional context of the investment.
2. The Member States shall inform the Commission of their decisions to grant aid to investment in shipbuilding, conversion or repair yards where the amount of such investment is in excess of five million units of account.
This information shall be provided every year in the form of a table based on the specimen at Annex I : on 1st March in respect of decisions taken in the second half of the previous calendar year and on 1st Septem­ ber in respect of those taken in the first half of the current calendar '
! year. ',
Aids to rescue an undertaking t
Aids and interventions intended as a temporary solution for the rescue I of a shipbuilding, ship-conversion or ship-repair undertaking pending a
solution to the problems confronting the undertaking concerned, where i this aid or intervention is warranted by . acute social pro
blems may be considered compatible with the common market under this Direc­ tive . Plans for such aid shall , pursuant to Article 93(3 ) of the Treaty , be notified to the Commission individually and in advance. They cannot be put into effect before the Commission has given its agreement.
Anti-crisis aids
1. Production aids and interventions may be considered compatible with the common market under this Directive if they are granted in order to alleviate
- the serious crisis, which is causing a substantial reduction in orders on hand in a Member State and subsequently a decrease in production. Such aids shall be progressively reduced ; they shall be granted only if linked to the realisation of industrial restructuring objectives with a view to making
the industry competitive and able to operate without aid.
2.The Commission shall be given prior notification of any plan for indivi­ dual intervention measures under the scheme referred to in paragraph 1 ' above where the project is in competition with an offer from a yard in another Member State. The aid proposal cannot be implemented before the Commission has given 'ft s agreement . The Commission shall verify that these aids do not affect trading conditions to an extent contrary to the common interest .
3. The Member States shall supply to the Commission a table, for the exclusive j use of the Commission, based on the specimen at Annex II, setting out the
decisions on the aid and intervention referred to in paragraph 1 and an estimate of their effects. They shall also provide a report on the reali- sation of the industrial restructuring objectives .
This information shall be provided on 1st March of each year in respect of decisions taken during the second half of the previous calendar year, and on 1st September in respect of those taken in the first half of the cur­ rent calendar year. ' "
 The Commission shall verify on the basis of these reports whether theefforts
^ to implement the industrial restructuring objectives mentioned in paragraph 1 of this article are contributing effectively to the adaptation of the
sector tot'nenew conditions of the world shipbuilding market.
The Commission shall regularly draw up an overall report to serve as the basis for discussion with national experts.
4. Interventions in the form of cost-escallation insurance can be considered as
being compatible with the common market under the present Directive provided that the conditions noted in paragraph 1 above^. are respected.
5. The aid and intervention measures listed in Annex III are considered com­ patible with the common market under paragraphs 1 and 4 of the present Article. The Commission shall modify the list at Annex III on the basis of the deci­
sions it takes regarding new schemes or existing aid schemes. Article 7
Aid for the purchase of ships shall not be granted to shipowners in a Member State a way which discriminates against shipyards in other Member States.
A biannual report on aid granted on a selective basis to domestic shipowners shall be made by the Member States, on 1st March in respect of decisions taken in the second half of the previous calendar year and on 1st September in res­ pect of those taken in the first half of the current calendar year. j
This information shall be provided in the form of a table based on the speci­ men at Annex IV. The Commission shall draw up reports at regular. intervals summarizing the information supplied . I
These reports shall be discussed with the Member States in order to ensure • »
that competition between shipbuilders is not distorted by such aid. These provisions are without prejudice to any future Community rules
on aid to shipowners. !
In its appraisal of the national aids which are concerned by this Directive, the Commission shall take account of the common interest as defined in
common objectives for restoring the industry's health when such common • objectives have been defined by the Council on a proposal from the Com­
The Member States shall refrain from any intervention measures to promote within their national territories the building, conversion or repair of ships as defined in article 1 and the manufacture of products intended
to form part of such ships other than those provided for in Articles 2
to 7 or those considered compatible with the common market under Articles . 92 and 93 of the Treaty .
The Council, acting by a qualified majority on a proposal from the Commis­ sion , shall amend this Directive as and when appropriate . '
Such amendment may follow an improvement in demand or favourable develop­ ments in international contacts .
This directive shall apply until 31 December 1980. , Article 12
This directive is addressed to the Member States.
Where applicable , indicate whether part of development programme
Description of investment
Purpose of iveSt mervt (1 )
Amount of investment
Form of assi stance
percentage of the investment
Table of investment aid under Article 5
 Information to be furnished by Member States concerning the aid
and intervention referred
Seri al Type of number - vessels
Gross registered tons
Financial effect , as a percentage of the contract
C1) Grant equivalent is calculated by discounting at a rate of 8%. Where payment is by instalments, the relevant grant equivalents are shown
in the table relating to the period in which the payments were made.
List of aids considered to be compatible with
the Common Market in application of Article 7 paragraph 1
Aid measure for ship-building notified to the Commission on the 22.3.77 which was the subject of the Commission's letter dated 1/7/77 advising the Dutch Government that the Commission had no objections regarding the measure.
Aid measure for ship-building notified to the Commission on the 18/2/77 which was the subject of the Commission's letter dated 1/7/77 advising the British Government that the Commission had no objections regarding the measure.
 Information on aid to shipowners, to be furnished "by Member States pursuant to Article 8
of aid
as a percentage of the contract
ïype of ! Gross re- Form Financial effect Country of
