In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
~"M: ftTtr -salr on Hrite -ne cota t:^–
Corisomn ation humaine .,, M
on the situation in the milk sector
At Its 516 th meeting, from 8-12 May 1978, the Council recognised the factor* which continue to prevent a return to a balanced market for milk and milk produots and deoided to review the situation before
1 Ootober 1978* The Commission was requested to present a full report on the situation together with proposals for any regulations it considered appropriate
The Commission has again examined the milk market situation with %
special attention to developments sinoe 1968 and has assessed the »
effectiveness of the action taken for the progressive achievement of balance
Serious imbalances persist on the Community market in the milk sebtor.
The estimates available to the Commission indioate a worsening of
these imbalances in the future* The world market is already over­
supplied and there are few additional export outlets. Despite the
adoption of a number of measures over the past few years, those now
in force are not capable of mastering the situation* The budgetary cost
of milk seotor measures is becoming more difficult to support and it is
clear that the high prioe level together with the absolute guarantee »
system can only enoourage increased production, while consumption and outletsaremoreorlessstable. TheCommissionis^fullyaware,however, that'mile
makes the biggest contribution to final agricultural production in the
Community and that it involves the greatest number of farmers.
(1) See summary of the decisions taken by the Council at its 516th meeting of 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 May 1978 (Agrieulture)i Document T/445/78 (AGRl) of 19 May 1978 Annex, pages 5-6.
(2) Aotion programme (1977-80) for the progressive achievement of balance in the milk market (CCM(76) 300 of 6 July 1976)•
The Commission reoommends that it is essential to define more precisely the
objectives to he pursued in the milk seotor. These guidelines should be: i»
to stop the inorease in production, to avoid all national and Community
measures whioh run ooxrtrary to this objective, to put the stress on
measures which allow the level of consumption to be maintained, to increase the outlets for milk and to reduoe the milk production potential .
The Commission reiterates its intention to continue a prudent price
policy» an aotive policy of disposal of existing stocks and to look for new outlets for milk.
In additionf the Commission will undertake active studies directed:
to adaptation of the existing system. To be effeotive, any aotion of this kind must restrain the inoentive to produce. The Commission
thinks that this could be achieved by a system linking intervention price
to production or intervention quantity^or/a better use of the co-responsibility, levy; orbyreturningsomemil-ktoproducersintheformofliquidskimmed milkorpowder; orbyrestrictingunconditionalaccesstointervention;or
by a combination of these methods.
Furthermore, the Commission considers that it may be neoessaiy to tak£
measures whioh will take account of the social situation of small milk producers working in particularly difficult conditions.
The analyses of the market and the disoussion on possible aotion,
after aooount has been taken of the views expressed by all those concerned, will form the basis for proposals to be submitted by the Commission later this year for decision in the 1979/80 prioe package.
MARKET IMBALANCE AND THE INADEQUACY OF PAST ACTION 1 Internal and external demand 1 Internal and external supplies 5 The persistent imbalance o
The measures taken 11 The outlook 19
Definition of the objectives 22 The suspension of national and Community aids 23 Conversion to other forms of production- •' 24 Measures to maintain or increase the disposal of
milk products 24 Temporary limits on an open-ended price guarantee 25 Aid for tte revenues of certain milk producers 27
List of graphs
Consumption per head of certain selected
Development of deliveries of cow's milk to
dairies by region 8
Development of the ratio between milk prices
and compound feeding stuff prices and trend
of EAGGF Guarantee budgetary expenditure 14
rButter production and consumption
Skimmed-sailk powder production and. ?n consumption --
Analysis of the situation of the milk sector in the Community and on the world market reveals a persistent and increasing imbalance between supply and demand due essentially to steadily increasing production pnd static consumption(1)
Internal and external demand
'Milk and milk products are used for both human and animal consumption.
Products for human consumption are normally sold at market prices and consumption has remained more or less unchanged for four or five years. The yearly consumption per head is around 12.5 kg of fat and 7.1 kg of protein. These overall averages vary little between Member States but there is much more variation if one considers separately butter, cheese anddrinkihg milk.
Products for animal consumption are, on the other hand, being subsidised to an ever-increasing extent and high quantities of milk protein are now being used in animal feed. The sharp fall
in the price of soya since 1975 and the change in the fat/protein ratio for the valorisation of milk have led to a large increase in the aid given for milk intended for animal feeding.
Butter consumption per head is decreasing in the long-term ; it uas 7 kg in 1968 and 6.5 in 1976. The effect of high prices on consumption should be a major consideration influencing price decisions . in the Community ., The reasons for this decline are
also competition from the substitute products margarine and table oil and changes in consumption habits .
(1) The forecasts contained in this report have been prepared by the Commission, which has taken into consideration the projections prepared by other international organizations (FAO, OECD etc.) and by national organizations.
 The poor competitive position of butter vis-a-vis its substitutes is due to the particularly favourable terms on which vegetable fats can be imported into the Community. It is true that margarine consumption is also diminishing but it is doing so less rapidly than butter consumption. The increasing use of butter consumption subsidies has however checked this movement .
Another reason for the reduction in butter consumption is consumer desire to reduce total fat intake in the interests of a better
nutritional balance , considered important for good health . Changes 0*
in working conditions are another factor leading to the establishment qf new consumption habits.
Cheese consumption per head on the other hand is steadily increasing: it was 8.7 kg in 1968 and 10.7 kg in 1976. Because of its diversity cheese is more adaptable than certain other milk products to
consumer requirements and for this reason price increases have not had as much effect .
Annual consumption per head of drinking milk and fresh products appears to be stable at around 102 kg. Until 1976 the fat content
of these products was going down and this was only partially compensatTd by increased consumption of cream. Cream consumption rose from 1.6 kg in 1968 to 2.0 kg in 1976. Since then there has been a certain improvement following the fixing of a minimum fat content for drinking milk. Increased consumption can also be expected not only of cheese but also of certain fresh milk products/ which are however under competitive pressure from soft drinks and
the like and are also subject to- competition
from new products in which the milk constituents are replaced by soya derivatives costing much less .
Two milk products, liquid skimmed, milk and skimmed-milk powder,
are used principally for feeding calves and pigs. Traditionally
liquid skimmed milk has returned to the farm but since 1968 there s,* has been a trend towards the processing of liquid milk into powder.
Thus, over two million tonnes of powder were produced in 1976, double the
and 60% for butter and between 25% end 40% for skimmed milk powder; in 1977 the Community's exports of butter and skimmed milk powder accounted for nearly half of the world market.
However , the world market ( 1 ) is often no more than a marginal outlet compared with the Community market, and particularly in respect of processed products, such as cheese (7%) and butter (11%).
figure for 10 years previously. More than 80% of this goes for• animal feed, thanks to increasingly large subsidies aimed at
making it more competitive with feeding stuffs produced from vegetable matter . Milk-based mi Ik-replacer feed for calves absorbs 1.2 million tonnes per year.
A special measure designed to accelerate the disposal of skimmed- milk powder stocks by allowing manufacturers of feeds for pigs and poultry to use skimmed-milk powder in place of other proteins has had some success, 450,000 tonnes being disposed of annually in this way. " '•
It has on the contrary turned out to be very difficult to reverse
the steady reduction in the quantity of liquid milk used directly on the farm for feeding calves and pigs.This declined from 5.5 million tonnes in 1968 to 3.5 million in 1977. The trend in animal feeding techniques is more and more towards the use of compound feeds that are easier
to use than liquid milk. It could be curbed, however, by action to
promote the use of liquid milk.
The Community is traditionally one of the largest operators on the world market in milk products . For some products , such as condensed milk ( about 80% ), whole milk powder ( 65% to 70%) and cheese (.35% to 45%), the Community's share of the world market remains relatively stable. In other products it varies greatly depending on the export policy followed and on the market outlets: between 1973 and 1976 the Community's share varied between 15%
8. Food aid consists mainly of butterotl (about 45 000 t per year) and skimmed milk powder (about 100 000 t per yaar). The recipient countries have set up programmes in towns for distributing reconstituted Liquid milk, which is often mixed with locally produced fresh milk. An effort has been made to ensure that at least half of the skimmed milk powder supplied comes from vitamin-enrichted milk.
The development of these supplies is hampered by inadequate organization of the milk sector in the recipient countries and by problems of transport and distribution which are difficult for the local administration to over­
come. The result is a c.ertain delay in the implementation of programmes
adopted by the Council. «
. Internal .and external supplies
The economic importance of the milk sector is demonstrated by the fact
that it accounts for about 19% of the final agricultural production of the Community and about 27% of the production of all products subject to common prices .
The milk sector is thus the most important sector in Community agriculture, followed by beef and veal, which is largely linked to it and which accounts for about 16% of total final production.
1 950 000 famrers are involved in dairy farming, one third of all Com­ munity farmers.
10. The Community market is supplied from home production and from certain im­ ports, particularly of butter and cheese.
Most of the milk supply comes from Community production. In the long term milk production rises by about 1.7% per year. This rise is mainly due t(T the continuous growth of the average milk yield per dairy cow, for the number of cows remains steady at about 25 million head. The milk yield rose from 3 444 kg in 1968 to 3 770 kg in 1976, owing to increased efficiency in dairy production (breeds, feeding, management).
Of the three factors making for higher yi.elds the strongest is the choice of feed. In recent years greater use of compound feeds with a high nutrit­
ional value have accelerated the rate of increase in milk yield. Between 1960 and 1976 consumption of compound feedingstuffs
for dairy cows increased more than fourfold throughout the Community. This trend has been encouraged since 1973 by the low cost of feedingstuffs which has improved the relationship between producer prices for milk and the cost of animal feeds .
11. An increasing proportion of the milk produced is processed and marketed
by dairies <84.9% in 1968 and 90% in 1976). Deliveries of milk to dairies rose by more thah 10.5 million tonnes between 1968 and 1976; about one- third of this increase was due to the rise in milk yields and two-thirds
to the rise in the percentage of production delivered to dairies, the latter being due to the gradual abandonment, of the practice of feeding calves on the farm and to structural changes. In recent years deliveries of milk to dairies have risen by an annual average of 2.5%;-'in some regions of the
Community the figure is far above this average, while the figure is nega­ tive in others (see graph N°2).
12. The rise in deliveries to dairies has led to increased production of milk products. Since 1968 the production of milk products which are not subject to intervention has generally corresponded to internal and external market
Production of butter rises by 1.5% annually and production of skimmed milk powder by 4.9% . The rapid increase in the production of skimmed milk
powder is due to changes in feeding methods on the farm and to the almost five­ fold increase in ten years in the production capacity of dairies.
13. The development of milk production is accompanied by far-reaching struc­ tural changes both on the farm and at the dairy. The size of the average
herd has doubled in the past ten years; at present 23% of the
in the Community are in herds of more than 40 cows (4%of all
and more than half are in herds of more than 20 cows (16% of
However, 35% of all dairy farms in the Community still have fewer than five cows.
dairy cows dairy farms ) dairy farms).
The increase in the size of the farm permits the use of modern techniques for housing and feeding animals and for collecting milk (tanks on the farm, collection by tanker truck ), while the need to amortize 'invested capital (whether the farmer's own or borrowed), induces a continuing intensific­ ation of production. Farms of this kind may,- consequently, be expected to be much more sensitve to variations in price.
14. This trend in the structures of milk production is one of the most difficult problems in the sector. The disappearance of the least efficient farms ought to be encouraged on economic grounds, but the common agrioultural'policy must not neglect its social responsibility to thefee holdings.
For its part , the dairy industry is undergoing concentration on two fronts .
Between 1960 and 1976 the number of dairies fell by more than two-thirds; this trend was combined with the rapid increase in the average per unit capacity which led to increased rationalization; the need to amortize in­ vested capital meant that the dairy had to collect enough milk to allow the optimum use of equipment and explainsvwhy most dairies are opposed to any measure reducing milk deliveries.
A concentration of economic power is also under way in the dairy sector, inasmuch -as an increased number of dairies are under a single or a con­
centrated management . For example , all the dairies in the United Kingdom are attached to seven decision-making centres, while the figures for the Netherlands and Luxembourg are three and two respectively. This concen­ tration of economic power encourages the optimal use of capacity.
16. Supplies from Community production are supplemented by butter and cheese in respect of which the Community has undertaken import commitments.
In the butter sector, this undertaking extends until 1980 in respect of imports from New Zealand . The figures are :
DELIVERIES OF COW'S MILK TO DAIRIES BY REGION (changes between 1973 and 1977)
 In the cheese sector/ the Community regularly imports 60000 to – --80 000 t of cheese from Switzerland, Austria and Finland undei–the
These imports represent only about 7% of Community butter production
and 2.5% of Community cheese production;,. ; ' ;-■I'n
The persistent imbalance ..J ! I
17. Analysis of the market in the milk sector shows that the surplus is a structural one. \ in 1i976 the Commission estimated tlrfs surplus at : about 10% of the milk delivered to dairies and since then the situation has worsened .
This imbalance has balled forth , at regular intervals , various special .i
measures, designed either to reduce production or to increase demand.; The deterioration of th£ situation is reflected in the growing cost of such measures: , EAG6F, Guarantee Section, expenditure for the milk ! sector has increased from 600 mi I lion u.a . in - 1968 in the Community of Six to 1 500 million u.a. in 1973 in the Community of Nine, rising to 3 000 mi lljpn u.a *- jVi~1.§77 (see graph No 4). In 1977 this expenditure represented about 20% of tlie value of the final production of the milk sector compared with only 10% .in 1968. j
The fact that expenditure has doubled since 1973 while the milk price;
has only increasedjby 40% indicates" a substantial increase in the
quantities: subsidized ^. Between 1968 and 1977, the Community was forced to'^s«t't^i5% of butter production and 80% of skimmed milk ! product ionfijin* powdered or liquid fornv at reduced prices . After ftie
ft-;'rapjdvinprease in,f£penditure in 1976 and 1977, the rate of increase
of .expenditure on milk products appears to be slowing down and the h £si.' ' _'
j^'^share of EAGGF Guarantee Section expenditure on milk products has / stabilized around, 38^.
19. \ The persistent imbalance on the milk market is due principally to an • ■' >. annual increase of 1.7% in production, in spite of practically
stagnating consumption. The imbalance is aggravated by the commitment s bound within the GATT to import fats and proteins of vegetable origin
at zero or very low rates of duty. It is further affected by the commitments undertaken by the Community in respect of butter and cheese imports .
Number of dairy cows
However, two remarks must be made concerning the Community's import commitments. First of all, if such commitments were to disappear these products would be transferred to the world market where they wouldcompetewithCommunityproducts. Secondly,thesequantities, which in the case of butter come up for review in 1980 are fixed, while the gap between Community production and available outlets is doomed to increase steadily in the future. In other words, it is false to believe that stopping imports would solve the milk problem in the long term and relieve the Community of its responsibility to restorethebalance. Itwouldineffectonlybea£hort-termremedy, and the problem would re-emerge in due course as acutely as ever.
In this context the main point to be borne in mind is that the world market is in a state of relative saturation, so that the scope for reasonably priced exports is limited.
In recent years the world market for milk products has not been im­ balance, since production has increased faster than consumption. In an effort to restore the market balance, some of the larger milk- producing countries succeeded temporarily at least, in reducing the production of certain milk products such as butter and skimmed milk powder. However, in other parts of the world milk production is increasing, so that global supply is increasing faster than demand. Available projections suggest that the world imbalance will persist in the short and medium term.
The measures taken
21. Sincethecreationofthecommonorganizationofmarketsin1968the Community has constantly had to take measures to deal with the imbalance on the milk market . Three factors have thwarted such
efforts. Firstly the size and unconditional nature of the guarantee given by the common organization of markets itself .
Secondly, the very close Link between beef production and milk production means that the measures taken to support prices in the two sectors have a cumulative effect where the milk producer is concerned; the result is that measures in favour of beef and veal may actually encourage milk production. Finally, events outside the influence or control of the milk policy in force may directly counteract the objectives pursued: examples of this are the monetary situation, the fall in the price of feedingstuffs and the prolonged economic recession .
is the most important . The price freeze applied between 1969 and 1971 showed clearly that producers react to such a policy, as they did also whenpricescaughtupinsubsequentyears. Averycautiousprices policy has again been pursued over the last two marketing years.
The last ten years have shown that an increase in production is set off by three phenomena, particularly when they appear in combination as has been the case in the Community. These are:
(a) anattractivemilkpricelevel;
(c) thelimitedpossibilitiesforconversiontoothertypesof
By and large, this has indeed been the situation ever since the introduction of the common organization of the market in mi Lk and milk products, even in marketing years when the milk price did not increase
or increased only slightly, and it has applied particularly to holdings with a good average structure.
It should also be said that the relationship between milk prices and the prices of other products, and also the relationship between the price of products- and the cost of producing them, has accentuated the trend to increase milk production.
Consequently, under this system of unconditional guarantees, all the conditions existed for an increase in milk production, whereas the sole economic check to any increase in the volume of production, namely dissuasion through prices, did not exist at all, or was
It is not true, as some people think, that a higher price level would have dissuaded the farmers from increasing the quantities produced or that a reduction in prices would stimulate production. In effect, in view of the unlimited quantities of non-Community feedingstuffs available with a more favourable feedingstuff/miIk price ratio and the advantages of improved animal genetics, better stalling and better milking techniques, farmers naturally tend to increase production as
long as an incentive is provided by the relationship of the milk price to feeding-costs and to the interest rates on the loans raised to cover investment expenditure.
The price policy,should therefore act as a brake on,.investments in this sector. This is all the more likely to be effective since a
"growing number of farms purchase the greater part of their feeding- stuffs outside the Community and need increased financial resources to improve the quality of their herds or to make the necessary invest­ ments for animal housing.
For this reason the Commission is still convinced that the cautious
price policy which it has already adopted is the cornerstone of any
measure to restore balance on the milk market. **
On the other hand, the Commission considers that the case of small
milk producers should be carefully examined since a tough price policy
could place them in a very difficult economic and social situation. A
In recent years the Commission has proposed to the Council a cautious price policy accompanied by other measures.
Of these the co-responsibility levy which was introduced in 1977 should have played a major part. If such was not the case this was becausetheideaofavariablelevywasnotaccepted. Asaresult this levy has not served the purpose of cutting back milk production; its object has rather been to make milk producers share the financial responsibility for it within certain limits.
It is against this background that the co-responsibility levy should be judged, and it should also be recalled that the introduction of
this levy was partially offset by the price increase decided at the same time.
At its current level, the maintenance of the levy may be open to question, as receipts barely exceed collection costs. However, the impact that a variable levy would have, whether or not accompanied by amendments to the intervention system, should not be overlooked.
1970=100 (Index in national currency)
Data are Lacking for Denmark
In any case, the introduction of the levy has served to make public opinion more aware of the seriousness of the problems.
24. The imbalance on the milk market arises because there are more dairy cows than are justified by the market outlets. For that reason the Commission as far back as 1969 has sought to get to the root of the problem by introducing a system of premiums for slaughtering dairy cows and the non-marketing of milk and then
in 1973 a system of premiums for the conversion of dairy herds
to meat production. This set of measures met with appreciable
success . Since the imbalance persisted , the Community intro- %
duced a system of non-marketing and conversion premiums in 1977. During the first ten months of its application about 400 000 cows or 1.6% of the dairy herd were slaughtered under this system . As the measure proved inadequate , the Community decided to reinforce this system considerably in 1978. However, even such a reinforced system cannot solve the milk problem on its own; it could be much more effective if backed up by other measures to restrict milk production.
25. In connection with the agricultural price proposals for 1978/79 the Commission had proposed to suspend intervention in respect of skimmed milk powder during the winter months. This proposal which was not adopted and is still before the Council shows that it is possible to modify the present rigid intervention system because the proposed aid would have represented a guarantee of some value for producers.
26. Since the beginning of the common market in milk the Community has tried to increase outlets for milk products both within the Community and outside. These measures relate especially to butter , to liquid skimmed milk and to skimmed milk powder . They were continually expanded and as a result have given rise to increasingly heavy budgetary expenditure.
27. The Community has implemented a number of important measures to ' ^
stimulate outlets for butter. Since 1973 the then existing .'s τ
measures have been supplemented by the introduction of a system
of aid for butter consumption which has been applied in the
United Kingdom and intermittently in Ireland, Denmark and Luxembourg. While the quantities disposed of under these special measures have not increased considerably, disposal costs have con­ tinued to rise .
Thus by applying the special measures in 1973 110 000,.tonnes of butter from public stocks were sold on the internal market at a cost of about 1 200 u.a. per tonne; in 1977 the corresponding quantity was 140 000 tonnes and the cost was about 1 500 u.a. per tonne. Such measures cannot be developed further without risk of
reduced such as useful ,
economic and financial effectiveness. Other measures, the subsidy for milk products consumed in schools, though cannot in themselves provide a solution .
28. With regard to animal feed, technical developments and the level
of prices of substitute feedingstuffs for milk have created a situation in which liquid milk or skimmed milk powder can no longer be marketed without increasingly substantial subsidies . Thus at present the Community is obliged to subsidize 45% of the milk powder for feeding to calves and 85% of the amount for the pig industry.
In the pig industry the unit cost of the aid is high. However, it should be pointed out that in 1977 an outlet was thus ensured for %. 450 000 tonnes of skimmed milk powder (one quarter of the Community production) which otherwise would have been taken by vegetable protein .
The aid granted for liquid skimmed milk has an equivalent effect
but also has the advantage of making' processing into powder unneces­ sary and thereby eliminates the resultant storage costs. In order to ensure that this aid is effective the Commission considers that
it should be made permanent.
29. The Community has continually made use of the disposal possi­ bilities available on the world market. At present the refunds granted on butter represent about 70% of its value/ those granted on skimmed milk powder sometimes as much as 85%. Although the quantity of milk products being delivered as food aid is increas­ ing, it is still rather limited; in volume, it represents about one third of the butter and milk powder exports.
30. If many of the measures taken have seemed inadequate to solve
the problem of imbalance, it is not so much the fault oj the measures in themselves or of the manner in which they have been appCied, but rather because increases in production, stimulated
by the system of guarantees have counteracted their effect. More­ over, a number of measures, whether at national or even Community level, tend to run counter to the objective of balancing the milk market. This is the case, for example, with certain national aid measures; although it is difficult to make an accurate assessment of the importance and impact of national subsidies granted directly or indirectly to the milk sector, the total expenditure which the Member States incurred in the agricultural sector (more than six milliard u.a . in 1977, apart from expenditure in the social field ) suggests th^t the amount spent directly or indirectly on milk is high, given the importance of the sector.
The Commission has, in this connection, paid particular attention
to dairies: from 1964 to 1977, the Guidance Section of the EAGGF financed more than 700 projects in the milk sector, representing
a total investment of almost 1.5 milliard u.a. Certain projects relating to the production of surplus products were not financed
by the Fund. Thus while aid granted for projects in the milk sector represented up to 1973 40% of all 9id granted for the marketing and processing of agricultural products, it was less than 10% in 1977. The policy on the modernization of fafms (Directive 72/159/EEC)
had some effect but the effect was limited by delays in implementa­ tion in most of the Community regions.
The outlook
31. All the information at present available to the Commission indicates that the situation can only get worse.
Consumption can be maintained at its present level only through a steady increase in budgetary expenditure ; the possibility of it rising , save through an excessive financial effort , seems completely ruled out . Similarly, giveti the situation of imbalance prevailing on the world market, there is*no hope for any substantial increase in Community exports at satisfactory price levels; food aid in itself will probably provide only limited additional outlets.
32. On the other hand, there is no indication that the steady increase
in production will stop. Although livestock numbers have remained
more or less constant, with probably slightly less than 25 million dairy cows following the measures currently being implemented, milk production should continue to rise owing to steadily increasing yields. Moreover, until 1980, butter availabilities will continue j, to be affected by contractual import obligations. Cheese imports .
will be similarly affected by agreements entered into under GATT.
33. The imbalance between supply and demand will no doubt lead to in­ creased quanfTties offered for intervention. Disposal of such products will soon give rise to problems because of saturation on internal
and external markets and the prohibitive nature of the financial effort required .
34. The possible enlargement of the Community to include Greece, Portugal* and Spain will not make it easier to dispose of milk products.
These countries , in have rather limited of by the Community
spite of being net importers of milk products, import needs and these are largely taken care as now constituted.
Interna I use Chuman and calves)
In these countries/ the dairy herd is not great and yields per cow are low; on the other hand, there are relatively large numbers of sheep and goats.
The application of the common organization of markets to these
countries , however , will probably lead to increased production on the milk sector, particularly in Spain where production has increased by more than 50 % over the last ten years.
35. It would be futile to attempt to assess with any precision the quantities of milk -products for which there will be a''surplus
in coming years. But it is certain that, if the situation is allbwed to go on as it is, the imbalance on the milk market can only get worse without there being the slightest hope of reducing it .
36. The Community has already put into effect a number of measures intended to improvethebalanceinthemilkmarket. Althoughthesemeasureshavebeen ofrealvalue, theyhavenotbeensufficierfctoavoidincreasingproblems. The available forecasts indicate growing imbalance in the future despite the measures taken. In these circumstances the Commission considers that the policy in the jnilk sector should be more precisely defined. The Commission considers also that it is desirable that producers and all those engaged in the milk industry should know clearly the objectives which the Community intends to follow in this sector and should understand the
necessity for the measures envisaged as well as the way in which they will work .
37. InsettingitsobjectivestheCommunitymustbeawareofacertainnumberof restraints which limit the possibilities for action, in particular,
- the price relation between milk fat and protein and vegetable fat and protein which is influenced by the differing levels of external protection
- the socio-economic situation of many small milk producers farming in regions which offer hardly any alternative possibilities
- the limited outlets available on the world market, either because of
restrictions in certain third countries or because of the high cost of It*
- the .continuation of agri monetary .measures
- the general economic situation in the Community which is characterized by
• a high level of unemployment .
38. Takingaccountoftheresultsoftheanalysissetoutearlierinthisreport, the Commission considers it necessary to pursue over the next few years the following guidelines in the milk sector
a) to stop the increase in production
b) to avoid all measures which run contrary to this objective and, in
particular, all aids to investment given by public funds at the Community or national level, which favour higher production and which are still
given both at the level of the farm and at the level of the processing
and marketing enterprises
c) to put the stress, where possible, on measures which allow the level of
consumption to be maintained, to increase the outlets for milk and to
reduce the milk production potential
d) to take the necessary additional measures which will take account of the
social situation of small milk producers working in particularly difficult conditions.
At the same time that the Commission recommends the objectives , it reiterates its intention to continue the following main elements ,of the existing policy
a) a prudent and moderate price policy, which is an essential element necessary to establish an equilibrium on the market
b) an active policy of disposal of existing stocks, which should give, wherever reasonable, priority to the Community's own consumers and preference to direct use of fresh products rather than the purchase and sale of products through the intervention agencies
c) to look for new outlets for milk products both within the Community and on export markets, for example through long term contracts.
The Commission intends to submit to the Council specific proposals for additional measures necessary to check the increase in milk production.
In the Commis!^1^on,s opinion the continuation of the guarantee f<rthe existing quantities represents, with the new measures proposed, an element ofco–responsibilitybetweentheCommunityanditsmilkproducers. When the Council adopts the new measures 'it will also be necessary to decide whether the co-responsibility tax should continue in its present form or be modified or be replaced by new measures to apply from the beginning of the 1979/80 marketing year.
The suspension of national and Community aids
The existence of national policies which are directed to increases in milk production runs against the Community*s action intended to establish a balance on the milk market. These national policies can cause difficulties insofar as they involve important financial contributions to the milk industry. ForthisreasontheCommissionintendsfirstofalltocheck
 investments in the milk sector but to encourage those investments which concern new products or new outlets.
41. In relation to processing and marketing of milk and milk products, the
Commission considers that aids from public funds to such investments
directly linked to milk production/must now be suspended for a period of time until the market balance in. the milk sector has been restored to a more reasonable level.
Conversion to othor forms of production
The measures which give most effective help to re-establishing the milk market balance are those which contribute to possible conversions from
milk production to other agricultural enterprises, either by modifying
the price relationship or by the payment of grants. It is an essential element in the future policy that the system of grants for the non- commercialization of milk and conversion to beef or sheep should be continued and that the maximum advantage should be taken of the improvements, both in the level of grants and administrative operation which have recently been introduced. The Commission will, at the appropriate time, present a report to the Council on the effects of the recent improvements in these schemes .
Measures to maintain or increase the disposal of milk products
must now be seriously limited; the only exceptions should be for investments liquid
such as Jbrmilk for consumption which has been pasteurized and not other­ wise treated, the use of liquid skimmed milk for animalfeed, new research,
the production of new products, energy saving and the protection of the environment .
42. Furthermore,theCommissionconsidersthatthoseaidstoinvestmentwhichare and which favor increased production
44* . While the necessary action is being taken to check the increasing volume of milk production, the Commission remains committed to the special measures which have been introduced in order to facilitate the disposal of the existing surpluses. These measures have proved effective and indeed
essential to maintain the common milk policy in the most recent period.
The Commission strongly supports continued aid for fresh products such as liquid skimmed milk and fresh skimmed milk powder in order to reduce the incentivetopassthesemilkproductsthroughintervention. Induecourse, as a better balance is obtained in the milk market, the cost of these
measureswilldecline. Inthemeantime,theywillbepursuedwithvigour.
The importance of the action necessary on the internal market should be reflected in the -Commission' s approach to obligations on imports and the
possibilities for exports. Thus, the arrangements on the import of butter from New Zealand for the period after 1980 should take account of the
market situation on the internal market for milk fats. Sales of the Community's milk products towards third countries should be developed by
the present active export policy intended/ in particular, to enlarge the out­
lets for Community processed products . In this context the Commission will also examine the opportunity for long-term contracts for butter and skimmed milk powder. In the field of food aid, the special effort which has been made in 1977 on the execution of the programmes for milk powder with added
vitamins and for butteroil will be actively pursued in order to enable developping countries to increase their consumption of milk product and to improve their level of nutrition which is at present very low in comparison to industrialised countries (ratio 1:6 for dairy products).
46. IntheMultilateralTradeNegotiations,theCommission,inaccordancewith the mandate received from the Council, will increase its negotiating efforts intended to arrive at an international policy which would assure the respect of minimum prices for milk powder (whole and skimmed), butter and butteroil. The success of these negotiations would lead to a more stable international market which could help to maintain the level of consumption while reducing the cost of the Community's export refunds. Any arrangements reached in the form of bilateral agreements on imports or exports of cheeses will be taken in full knowledge of their impact on the Community market .
Temporary limits on an open-ended price guarantee
47. Notwithstandingthemeasuresalreadytakenordiscussedearlierinthis report, the open-ended nature and the high level of the guarantees remain a barrier to the re-establishment of the milk market balance. Any policy which does not take account of this fact is bound to fail. The principle of these guarantees must not be put in question; bi± the adaptation of the support measures is clearly necessary So long as the serious imbalance continues .
4<J. The Commission is examining the various possible solutions. The two broa,d approaches possible are either the imposition on the common milk policy of a system of production quotas (whether at the level of the individual farm, the dairy or the Member State) ££ the adaptation of the existing system, so long as necessary, by action on the price or the guarantees which could be
®ie Commission considers , therefore , that the action to be taken before
next marketing year should be directed to adaptations of the existing system, so that it works as originally intended. It is clear that, in order to be effective the action to be taken must, by one means or another,
linked to increases in production. Although a system of quotas could have an immediate effect, the Commission is not in favour of such a system. Such
measures would be difficult to reconcile with the Community's approach,
based on free decision and internal trade ; it would be almost impossible to construct such a policy without some inequity between different producers
or regions of the Comimmity; production quotas tend to fossilize the existing
structure; quotas would be extremely difficult to negotiate and even more difficult to change; and consequently there is a risk that in due course
there would be a return to surplus production
j the
restrain the incentive to produce and encourage the use of milk for the production of products which are not in surplus or for which markets can be expanded. This can be achieved by relating intervention prices to the level
of Community production within certain limits or by making the co-responsibility tax variable iiUi&ccordance with the level of Community production and hence using this tax as a regulator of supply; or by returning a certain quantity
of milk delivered to dairies back to producers in the form of liquid or dried skimmed milk; or by restricting unconditional access to intervention; or by a combination of these methods.
The Commission takes the view that active study should now oe undertaken, in
the period between publication of this report and the tabling of proposals
for decision in the 1979 price package, of the form of any scheme linking the level of intervention prices directly to the level of production or inter– vention. Such a formula,, in addition to its simple operation, would not put 1
ι in question the operation of the market economy. Furthermore , if production ,
or intervention did not increase above an agreed threshold or, after
increasing, fell back in response to a price disincentive, the arrangement would automatically have no further effect . The-more effective the action
on the price , the less necessary would be other • restrictive measures on the guarantees. At the same time it would ~~
be essential to take account of the difficulties of certain producers either through direct aids to revenue or through other forms of aid such as grants for suckling cows.
Aid for the revenues of certain milk producers-
51. Theintroductionofadditionalmeasuresand,inparticular,actiononthe intervention prices or guarantees would put pressure on the revenues of certain milk producers. The Commission is, therefore, giving active consideration to ja scheme of a social kind, which would give these producers some assurance of maintained revenues. This could be effected for example
through a system of direct aids to the income of certain,.full-time farmers who are producing milk and could find themselves without any realistic alternative. Theschemecouldbebasedonveryselectiveconditions concerning the size and nature of enterprise - number of cows etc., -
and other relevant factors such as eligibility to take advantage of Directive 160/72.
The aid would be temporary and would be linked to the person.
mand 1er
At its 516 th meeting, from 8-12 May 1978, "the Council explored the factors which continue to prevent a return to a balanced market for milk and milk products and decided to review the situation before
1 Ootober 1978* Th® Commission was requested to present a full report on the situation together with proposals for any new regulations it considered appropriate
The Commission has again examined the milk market situatw^Kwith special attention to developments since 1968 and has assessed the
effectiveness of the action taken for the progressive achievement of balance
Serious imbalances persist on the ComiS^ity market in the milk sector. The estimates available to the Commission indicate a worsening of
these imbalances in the futuj^, The world market is already over­ supplied and there are f^j0Ulditional export outlets. Despite the
adoption of a number (^measures over the past few years, those now
in force are not capable of mastering the situation. The budgetary cost
of milk seot^ measures is becoming more difficult to support and it is
clear thajJS&he high price level together with the absolute guarantee
system\jan only encourage increased production, while consumption and
outlet are more or less stable. The Commission is fully aware ,nowever, that mik
makes the biggest contribution to final agricultural production in the Community and that it involves the greatest number of farmers.
(1) See summary of the decisions taken by the Council at its 516th meeting of 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 May 1978 (Agriculture): Document T/445/78 (AGRl) of 19 May 1978 Annex, pages 5-6.
(2) Action programme (1977-80) for the progressive achievement of balance in the milk market (COM(76) 300 of 6 July 1976).
 The Commission recommends that it is essential to define " the
objectives to he pursued in the milk sector. These guidelines should be:
to stop the increase in production, to avoid all national and Community efc*
measures which run contrary to thxs objective, to put the stress on
measures which allow the level of consumption to he maintained, to increase the outlets for milk and to reduce the milk product potential .
The Commission reiterates its intention to continue a prudent price
policy, an active policy of disposal of existing stocks and to look for new outlets for milk.
In addition, the Commission will undertake active studies directed to adaptation of the existing system. To he effective, any action of this kind must restrain th^rincentive to produce. The Commission thinks that a system inking intervention price to production or intervention quantity or a better use of the co-responsibility levy could be an appropriate approach which will be studied.
Furth^^rkre, theCommissionconsidersthatitmaybeneoessarytotake measures which will take account of the social situation of small milk
producers working in particularly difficult conditions.
The analyses of the market and the disoussion on possible aotion,
after account has been taken of the views expressed by all those concerned, will form the basis for proposals to be submitted by the Commission later this year for decision in the 1979/80 price package.
Amendments agreed upon during the Chefs de Cabinet meeting ( 19.9.1978 )
y+ Vlas "hppyi m-priaTpH Part I : Summary : a new text has been prepared
point 37 4 th sub-paragraph , replace bv : "the continuation of agri monetary measures"
point 38^^!^. a) read : "a prudent and moderate price polic^^ich is an essential ...."
read : "the present active export policy intended ,
in particular, to enlarge the outlets for Community processed products. In this context the Commission will also examine the opportunity for long term contracts "
point 48 line 5 : read "the guarantees which could be linked "
point 50, line 7 read "or intervention did not increase above sin agreed tnreshold or , ...."
line 3 add "for feeding waives and oisrs" line 3 read "condensa^wilk (about 80 %)" line 8 read "between 25 and AO fc "
page 27> point 51> line 5 : read "This could be effected for exarapl e , t iirough
line 8 : delete : "applying to " and the ^ following sub-paragraph <X^'
read : "selective conditions concerning*^ the size and nature of enterprise –
number of cows etc . , – and other
relevant factors such^^eligibility to take advantage oftg^Lrective 160/72 <2^
The aid would be temporary and would be linked to the person".
point 51 and 52 : Deletjifi«the total following text.
Subject: Milk and milk products (COM(7o)^30 + /2)
Results of special Chefs de Cabinet's meeting, 19 September 1978
with Mr Avery, Adviser, President's Cabinet, in the^jjfeir, to
prepare the Commission's discussion on the abov^$jS&bject at its 486th meeting. ^53^
 The Chefs de Cabinet considered ^Mr Gundelach's communication (COM(78)^30 + /2). Their conclusions were as follows.
1. It was agreed to recommend that the Commission approve the analytical portion of the communication (COM(78)^30), with some
changes of wording and presentation, Mr Gundelach's Chef de Cabinet
undertaking to add a subsection on the movement of consumption and ^ production of milk products outside the Community, and to provide
table relating to subsections 9 and 13-
2. It was agreed to set aside for the Commission the second part
of the communication (COM(785^30/2), with the sugg^jj^on that the Commission concentrate on: <5^
• suspension of national and Community aid (suV&ections k0-k2)
Mr Vouel's Chef de Cabinet drew attention in this connection to
the institutional aspects and the ro3^ of the Commission under Article 93(1) of the Treaty.
It was noted that the personn^pneeded to supervise the implementation of the measui^k to be taken would have to be
considered according to what measures were in fact finally adopted .
• reorientation meaa»res and measures to maintain or raise
, the~leveI"of salg§ of"milk products Tsubsections £3
On this Mr Vredeling's Chef de Cabinet entered a reservation. • adjustment of support measures (subsections ^7-50)
With^^gard to the preference expressed in subsection 50 for a^<^tem directly relating the intervention price level to the
•production level, it was stated that Mr Gundelach would be detailing this further to the Commission.
It was agreed to suggest that the various other options should also be included in the planned study.
3. It was noted that before the drawing-up of the price proposals for 1979/80 DG VI would consider the economic effects of a cut in the price of milk.
Definition of the objectives
The suspension of national and Community aids Conversion to other forms of production
Measures to maintain or increase the disposal of^hilk products
Temporary limits on an open-ended pric^&uarantee Aid for. the revenues of certain mL35$hproducers
The Community has already put into effect a.number of measures intended to improve the balance in the milk market. Although these measures have been of real value , they have not been sufficient }co avoid increasing problems . .
X the measures taken. In these circumstances the Commission considers that
'The available forecasts indicate growing imoalance in the future despite the policy in the milk sector should be more precisely defined. Tr^
Commission considers also that it is desirable that prodticers
engaged in the milk industry should mow clearly the objectiv^^,rhich Ahe Community intends to follow in this sector and should midej^^and the
necessity, for the measures envisaged as well as the way in which they will work. • •
J7• In- setting.itsobjectivestheCommunitymust-be^j§^eofacertainnumberof restraints which limit the possibilities for iJs^Lon, in particular,
– the price relation between milk fat and^jfotein and vegetable fat and protein which is influenced oy the differing levels of external protection
- the socio-economic situation of many small milk producers farming in regions which offer hardly any^Lternative possibilities
– the' limited outlets availab^^br. the world market, either because of restrictions in certain iS^i'd countries or because of the high cost of
– the absence for the time being of a real economic and monetary union
– the general economic situation in the Community which is characterized by
}8. Taking acc^S£ of the results of the analysis set out earlier in this report , the Commission considers it necessary to pursue over the next few years the
following guidelines in the mill: sector
ajvto stop the increase in production
J to avoid all measures which run contrary to tnis objective end, in'
particular, all aids to investment given by public funds at the Coimnunity or national level, which favour higher production and which ere still
given both at the level of the farm cuid at the level of the processing
and marketing enterprises
c) to put the stress, where possible, on measures which allow the level" of
consumption to be maintained, to increase the outlets for milk and to
reduce the milk production potential ^
d) to take the necessary additional measures which will -take account of th^j^* social situation of small milk producers working in particularly ^
At the same time that the Commission recommends the objectives,
reiterates its intention to continue the following main elemei^jj^of the existing policy
a) a prudent and moderate price policy, which is the essential element necessary to establish an equilibrium on the market
b) an_active policy of disposal of existing stoc^g, which should give, wherever reasonable, priority to the Commui^J^s own consumers and
preference to direct use of fresh produc^j^rather than the purchase and
sale of products through the intervej^jpbii agencies
c) to look for new outlets for milk products both within the Community and
on export markets , for example through long term contracts .
The Commission intends to subn^yto the Council specific proposals for
additional measures necessc^j^bo check the increase in milk production. In the Commission's opii^^i the continuation of the guarantee f<r the existing quantities represents, with the new measures proposed, an element of co-responsibility between the Community and its milk producers. When
the Council ad^;s the new measures it will also be necessary to decide whether the ^^responsibility tax should continue in its present form or be modifi^^or be replaced by new measures to apply from the beginning cf
the 1979/80 marketing year.
40. The suspension of national and Community aids
X^&h existence of national policies which are directed to increases in milk ^ production runs against the Community*s action intended to establish a
balance on the milk market. These national policies can cause difficulties
insofar as they involve important financial contributions to the milk industry. For this reason the Commission intends first of all to check
V While the necessary action is being taken to check the increasing volume
of milk production, the Commission remains committed to the special measures which have beei1 introduced in order to facilitate the disposal of
the existing surpluses . 'Hiese measures have prove ! effective and indeed
Commission considers that aids from public funds to such investments ^
"must now be seriously limited: the only exceptions should be for investment liquid
such as fbrmilk for consumption which has beon pasteurized and not other-^p* wise treated , the use of liquid skimmed milk for aniinalfeed , new research ,
the production of new products, energy saving and the protection of the environment .
Furthermore , the Commission considers that aids to investment which are directly linked to milk production must now be suspended for a period of
time until the market balance in. the milk secto^has been restored to a more reasonable level . '
Conversion to other forms of production
Ihe measures which give most effective help to re-establishing the milk market balance are those which contribute to possible conversions from
milk production to other agn^^Lltural enterprises , ' either by modifying
the price relationship the payment of grants. It is an essential element in the future £$*Licy that the system of grants for the non- commercialization of milk and conversion to beef or sheep should be
continued and that the maximum advantage should be taken of the improvements,
both in the l^^el of grants and administrative operation which have recently
been intr^^bed. The Commission will, at- the appropriate time, present a report the Council on the effects of the recent improvements in these
Measures to maintain or increase the disposal of milk products
investmenLa in the milk sector "but to encourage those, investments which concern new products or new outlets .
41. In relation to processing and marketing of milk and milk produces, the
essential to maintain the common nilk policy m the most recent period.
The Commission strongly supports contimied aid for fresh products such as liquid skimmed milk and fresh skimmed milk powder in order to reduce the incentive to pass these milk products through intervention. In "due course- as a better balance is obtained m the milk market, the cost of these measures will decline . In the meant ine , they will be pursued with vigour .
45. The importance of the action necessary on the internal market should be reflected In the Commission's approach to obligations on imports and the
possibilities for exports. Thus, the arrangements on the import ^ butter from Hew Zealand for the period after I90O should take account J&'the
market situation on the internal market for milk fats. Sal^j^Jof the* Community's milk products towards third countries should J^cLeveloped by
an active export policy intended , in particular , to enlarge the outlets for Community processed products and by the pursuit of long-term contracts
for butter and skimmed milk powder. In the fie^bof food aid, the special effort which has been made in 1977 on "kk® exeaS&ion of the programmes for
millc powder with'-added vitamins and for bu^jproil will be actively pursued.
46. In the Multilateral Trade Negotiations, one Commission, in accordance with the mandate received from the Council, will increase its negotiating efforts intended to arrive at an international policy v/hich would assure the respect
of minimum prices for milk po^r (whole and skimmed), butter and butteroil .
The success of these ncgot^&ions would lead to a more stable international market which could help ^ maintain the level of consumption while reducing
the cost of the Community's export refunds. Any arrangements reached in the form of bilateral agreements on imports or exports of cheeses will be taken ih full knowlet&jr of their impact on the Community market.
Temporary Jvmts on an open-ended price guarantee
47* Notwithstanding the measures already taken or discussed earlier in this
report, the open-ended nature and the high level of the guarantees remain a
farrier to the re-establishment of the milk market balance. Any policy
^Sjj^irhich does not take account of this fact is bound to fail. The principle of these guarantees must not be put in question ; bit the adaptation of the
support measures is clearly necessary so long as the serious imbalance continue i> •
or regions of the Community; production quotas tend to fossilize sxisting
structure; quotas would be extremely difficult to negotiate anc^jj^en more
difficult to change; and consequently there is a risk that i^^ae course there would bo a return to surplus production
The Commission considers , therefore , that the action to be taken before the
next marketing year should be directed to adaptat^bs of the existing system, so that it works as originally intendet^-plt is clear that, in order
to be effective the action to be taken must^vV one means or another, restrain the incentive to produce and encc^age the use of milk for the
production of products which are not in surplus or for which markets can be
expanded. This can be achieved by relating intervention prices to the level
of Community production within c^fain limits; or by'making the co–responsibility
tax variable in accordance w^j^tho level of Community production and hence using this tax as a regulqdSt^r of supply; or by restricting unconditional
access to intervention ; or by a combination of those methods . •.
48. The Commission is examining the various possible solutions. The two broad
approaches possible are either the imposition on the common milk policy of
a system of production quotas (whether at the level of the individual farm,
the dairy or the Member State) or the adaptation of the existing system, so
long as necessary, by action on the price or the guarantees linked to
increases in production. Although a system of quotas could have an
immediate effect, the Commission is not in favour of suofe a system. Such
measures would be difficult to reconcile with the Community's approach,
based on free decision and internal trade ; it would be almost impossible to
construct such a policy without some inequity between different producers
50. The Commission takes the view that active study should now be undertaken, in the period betxire<&tr publication of this report and the tabling of proposals
for decision^ir the 1979 price package, of the form of any scheme linking the level of i^^rvention prices directly to the level of production or inter­
vention . Such a formula , in addition to its simple operation , would not put in question the operation of the market economy, furthermore, if production
^^intervention did not increase or, after increasing, fell back in response ^j^,o a price disincentive, the arrangement -would automatically have no further
^ effect. The more effective the action 0:1 the price, the less necessary would be other restrictive measures on the guarantees. At the same time it would
"be essential to take account of the difficulties of certain producers either through direct aids to revenue or through other forms of aid such as grants for suckling cows.
Aid for the revenues of certain milk producers'
The introduction of additional measures and, in particular, action on the^ intervention prices or guarantees would put pressure on the revenues of
certain milk producers . The Commission is , therefore , giving active consideration to a scheme of a social kind, which would give these producers
some assurance of maintained revenues. This would "be effected^rrough a system of direct aids to the income of certain full-time fa^jj&f's who are
producing milk and could find themselves without any rea^^ic alternative. The scheme could "be based on very selective conditions Applying to
– enterprises which have at least 5 and no more than 20 cows, do not exceed
20 hectares and . undertook not to increase th^Lr dairy herd
permanent pasture representing at least SQjaj^f the agricultural area of
the holding
beneficiaries who are too young to 1tiS&e advantage of directive 160/72.
The aid would "be temporary and would "be linked to the person. The conditions of directive 160/72 applicable to the older milk producers should also "be improved.
52» The analysis of the market situation in part I of this report and the discussion on possible action in part II, after account has been taken of
• the views exjjJfcessed by all those concerned, will form the basis for
proposal^^'be submitted by the Commission later this year for decision in thexj^79 price package.
PRODUITS FRAIS LAITIERSUoof crème)
Corlsornrnation humaine , 't Corfsomrnatipn hunairie__J ~x-'
New approaches to policy in the rnilk sectorisa*
(Commuru^non from the Commission to the Council)
 Internal and external demand Internal and external supplies
The persistent imbalance The measures taken
List of graphs
per head of
Development of deliveries of cow's milk to
dairies by regxa^ 8
Developme^^of the ratio between milk prices
and compound feeding stuff prices and trend
of EAGGF Guarantee budgetary expenditure 14
Development of the butter surplus 18 ^envelopment of the skimmed milk powder surplus 20
At its 516th meeting, from 8-12 May 1978, the Council explored the factors which continue to prevent a return to a balanced market for milk and
milk products and decided to review the situation before 1 October 1978. The Commission was requested to present a full report on the situation together with proposals for any new regulations it considered appropriate
The Commission has again examined the milk market situation with special attention to developments since 1968 and has assessed the effectiveness of the action taken for the progressive achievement of balance(2)
Serious imbalances persist on the Community market in thgSFilk sector.
The estimates available to the Commission indicate a ^Ssening of these imbalances in the future. The world market is already oversupplied and
there are few additional export outlets. Despite the adoption of a number of measures over the past few years, those now in force are not capable of mastering the situation. The Jjcgpgetary cost of milk sector
measures is becoming increasingly into^^ble and it is clear that the high price level together with the '^^5lute guarantee system can only encourage increased production. The Commission consequently considers
that it is essential to retain a cautious price policy and also proposes that the Council should reconsicj^p the objectives to be pursued in the sector.
The Commission wishe^SJo stress the necessity of taking action that is
both flexible enough and effective enough, first to stop the increase in the market imbalance in the milk sector and then , progressively , to bring
about a balance between supply and demand. The Commission is fully aware th^^ilk makes the biggest contribution to final agricultural
produ<^$&n in the Community and that it involves the greatest number of fl^mers.
(1) See summary of the decisions taken by the Council at its 516th meeting of 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 May 1978 (Agriculture): Document T/445/78 (AGRI)
of 19 May 1978 Annex, pages 5-6.
(2) Action Programme (1977-80) for the progressive achievement of balance in the milk market (C0M(76)300 of 6 July 1976).
between Member States but ther^jpte much more variation if one considers simply butter/ cheese and drinking milk.
Products for animal consumption are, on the other hand, being
subsidised to an eve^Sncreasing extent and high quantities of milk protein are ^j^being used in animal feed. The sharp fall
in the price o^^oya since 1975 and the change in the fat/protein ratio for the valorisation of milk have led to a large increase in
the aid given for milk intended for animal feeding.
Bu^^r consumption per head is decreasing in the long-term; it was in 1968 and 6.5 in 1976. The effect of high prices on
consumption should be a major consideration influencing price decisions in the Community. The main reasons for this decline are competition from the substitute products margarine and table oil and changes in consumption habits.
Analysis of the situation of the milk sector in the Community and W
on the world market reveals a persistent and increasing imbalano^> between supply and demand due . essentially to steadily increasing
production and static consumption ( 1 ) Internal and external demand
Milk and milk products are used for both human animal consumption . Products for human consumption are normally sold at market prices
and consumption has remained more or le^s unchanged for four or
five years. The yearly consumption^^ head is around 12.5 kg of fat and 7.1 kg of protein. These^^rall averages vary little
(1) The forecasts contained in this report have been prepared by the Commission, which has taken into consideration the projections prepared by other international organizations ( FAO, OECD etc .) and by national organizations.
 The poor competitive position of butter vis-a-vis its substitutes
is due to the particularly favourable terms on which vegetable fats can be imported into the Community. It is true that margarine consumption is also diminishing but it is doing so less rapidly &4
than butter consumption. The increasing use of butter consumptior^^ subsidies has however checked this movement .
Another reason for the reduction in butter consumption is consumer desire to reduce total fat intake in the interests of a better
nutritional balance, considered important for good he^jj^h. Changes in working conditions are another factor leading tgjwfce establishment
of new consumption habits.
Cheese consumption per head on the other hand is steadily increasing: it was 8.7 kg in 1968 and 10.7 kg in 1976. Because of its diversity cheese is more adaptable than certai£$bther milk products to
consumer requirements and for th-j^reason price increases have not
had as much effect . ' ν
Annual consumption per head of drinking milk and fresh products appears to be stable ^t around 1Q2 kg. Until 1976 the fat content
of these products ^^ going down and this was only partially compensated by ^j^eased consumption of cream. Cream consumption rose from 1.65*g in 1968 to 2.0 kg in 1976. Since then there has
been a certain improvement following the fixing of a minimum fat
content for drinking milk. Increased consumption can also be
exp^^d not only of cheese but also of certain fresh milk products,
v<^feh are however under competitive pressure from soft drinks and ,^Sthe like-fresh milk. Products are. also subjected to competition
from new products in which the milk constituents are replaced by soya derivatives costing much less .
Two milk products, liquid skimmed milk and skimmed-milk powder,
are used principally for feeding calves and pigs. Traditionally
liquid skimmed milk has returned to the farm but since 1968 there
has been a trend towards the processing of liquid milk into powder.
Thus, over two million tonnes of powder were produced in 1976, double the
figure for 10 years previously. More than 80/4 of this goes for animal feed, thanks to increasingly large subsidies aimed at
making it more competitive with feeding stuffs produced from vegetable matter . Milk-based mi Ik-replacer feed for calves absorbs 1.2 million tonnes per year.
A special measure designed to accelerate the disposal of skimme^jg^ milk powder stocks by allowing manufacturers of feeds for pigs^and
poultry to use skimmed-milk powder in place of other proteins has had some success, 450,000 tonnes being disposed of anni^lly in this
It has on the contrary turned out to be very difi^tilt to reverse
the steady reduction in the quantity of liquicHvnlk used directly
on the farm for feeding calves. This declined from 5.5 million tonnes
in 1968 to 3.5 million in 1977. The trend in animal feeding techniques is mare and more towards the use of <^S|bound feeds that are easier
to use than liquid milk. It coul<^Jfe curbed, however, by action to promote the use of liquid milk-.'tf^
The Community is traditionally one of the largest operators on the world market in milk products . For some products , such as
condensed milk (abo^>!^0%), whole milk powder (65% to 70%) and cheese <35% to 4Jj»S$/ the Community's share of the world market
remains relatiq^y stable. In other products it varies greatly depending on the export policy followed and on the market outlets: between 1973 and 1976. the Community's share varied between 15%
and for butter and between 26% end 42% for skimmed milk powder;
ii^^>77 the Community's exports of butter and skimmed milk powder ^Sikcounted for nearly half of the world market.
However, the world market ( 1 ) is often no more than a marginal outlet compared with the Community market, and particularly in respect of processed products, such as cheese (7%) and butter (11%).
9. The economic importance of the milk sector is demonstrated by the fact that it accounts for about 19% of the final agricultural production of the
Community and about 27% of the production^^all products subject to common prices . XS?
The milk sector is thus the most impgCT'ant sector in Community agriculture, foltowed by beef and veal, which is^largely linked to it and which accounts
for about 16% of total final production.
,1 950 000 famrers are involved in dairy farming, one third of all Com­
munity farmers.
10. The Community markettys supplied from home production and from certain im­ ports, particularly of butter and cheese.
Most of the milk supply comes from Community production. In the long term
milk procj^kion rises by about 1.7% per year . This rise is mainly due to
the c^l&huous growth of the average milk yield per dairy cow, for the numbi^ of cows remains steady at about 25 million head. The milk yield rose
from 3 444 kg in 1968 to 3 770 kg in 1976, owing to increased efficiency in dairy production ( breeds , feeding , management ).
Of the three factors making for higher yields the strongest is the choice of feed. In recent years greater use of compound feeds with a high nutrit-
ional value have accelerated the rate of increase in milk yield. Between 1960 and 1976 consumption of compound feedingstuffs
8. Food aid consists mainly of butteroil (about 45 000 t per year) and skimmed milk powder (about 100 000 t per yaar). The recipient countries have set up programmes in towns for distributing reconstituted liquid
milk, which is often mixed with locally produced fresh milk. An effort
has been made to ensure that at least half of the skimmed milk powder supplied comes from vitamin-enrichted milk. ,
The development of these supplies is hampered by inadequate organi za1<4yh of the milk sector in the recipient countries and by problems of transport and distribution which are difficult for the local administration to over­
come. The result is a certain delay in the implementation o^^rogrammes
adopted by the Council.
Supplies inside and outside the Community
for dairy cows increased more than fourfold throughout the Community. This trend has been encouraged since 1973 by the low cost of feedingstuffs which has improved the relationship between producer prices for milk and the cost of animal feeds .
11. An increasing proportion of the milk produced is processed and marketed
by dairies (84.9% in 1968 and 90% in 1976). Deliveries of milk to dair^SS
rose by more than 10.5 million tonnes between 1968 and 1976; about on^y third of this increase was due to the rise in milk yields and two-thirds
to the rise in the percentage of production delivered to dairies, the latter
being due to the gradual abondonment of the practice of feed^g calves on
the farm and to structural changes. In recent years deliv^^fes of milk to
dairies have risen by an annual average of 2.5%; in s^jj^regions of the Community the figure is far above this average, while^lie figure is nega­
tive in others (see graph N°2).
12. The rise in deliveries to dairies has led to ^tacreased production of milk products . Since 1968 the production of mi Uwbroducts which are not subject
to intervention has generally correspoi^fct to internal and external market outlets .
Production of butter rises by 1.5% annually and production of skimmed milk
powder by 4.9% . The rapid ir\^rease in the production of skimmed milk
powder is due to changes ^^eeding methods on the farm and to the almost five­ fold increase in ten in the production capacity of dairies.
13. The development of milk production is accompanied by far-reaching struc­ tural changes both on the farm and at the dairy. The size of the average
her.d has doused in the past ten years; at present 23% of the dairy cows
in the Co^^fiity are in herds of more than 40 cows (4%of all dairy farms) and mo^^lhan half are in herds of more than 20 cows (16% of dairy farms). However, 35% of all dairy farms in the Community still have fewer than
to be encouraged on economic grounds, but the common agricul^^al policy must not neglect its social responsibility to theise holdiirt&.
For its part , the dairy industry is undergoing concerrtj^ition on two fronts . Between 1960 and 1976 the number of dairies fell by more than two-thirds; this trend was combined with the rapid increase in the average per unit capacity which led to increased rationalizaia&n; the need to amortize in­
vested capital meant that the dairy had t^Jcollect enough milk to allow the optimum use of equipment and expla^s why most dairies are opposed to
any measure reducing milk deliveries ^
A concentration of economic power is also under way in the dairy sector,
inasmuch as an increased^pnber of dairies are under a single or a con­ centrated management. Fo^jyxample, all the dairies in the United Kingdom are attached to seven^&cision-making centres, while the figures for the Netherlands and Luxembourg are three and two respectively. This concen­
tration of economic power encourages the optimal use of capacity.
16. Supplies frwr Community production are supplemented by butter and cheese in respjrarof which the Community has undertaken import commitments.
In the butter sector, this undertaking extends until 1980 in respect of
imports from
Zealand . The figures are :
The increase in the size of the farm permits the use of modern techniques for housing and feeding animals and for collecting milk (tanks on the farm, collection by tanker truck), while the need to amortize invested capital
( whether the farmer 's own or borrowed ), induces a continuing intensific­ ation of production. Farms of this kind may, consequently, be expected to be much more sensitve to variations in price.
14. This trend in the structures of milk production is one of the most difficult problems in the sector. The disappearance of the least efficient farms ought
1973 and
1 (Decrease
19. The persistent imbalance on the milk market is due principally to an
annual increase of 1.7% in production, in spite of practically stagnating consumption. The imbalance is aggravated by the commitment
bound within the GATT to import fats and proteins of vegetable origin at zero or very low rates of duty. It is further affected by the commitments undertaken by the Community in respect of butter and cheese imports.
Analysis of the market in the milk sector shows that th^ surplus is a
In the cheese sector, the Community regularly imports 60000 to 80 000 t of cheese from Switzerland, Austria and Finland under the GATT Agreements.
These imports represent only about 7% of Community butter production^ and 2.5% of Community cheese production.
The persistent imbalance
structural one. In 1976 the Commission estimated thv?$kurplus at IrwokurpU
about 10% of the milk delivered to dairies and sirx&then the situation has worsened .
This imbalance has called forth , at regular intervals , various special, measures, designed either to reduce production or to increase demand.
The deterioration of the situation i^^flected in the growing cost of such measures: EAGGF, Guarantee Srfs^ion, expenditure for the milk
sector has increased from 600' q^jption u.a. in- 1968 in the Community of Six to 1 500 million u.a. in ^73 in the Community of Nine, rising to
3 000 million u.a. in 1977 (see graph No 4). In 1977 this expenditure
represented about 20%^of the value of the final production of the milk sector compared witifConly 10% in 1968.
The fact that <ywfenditure has doubled since 1973 while the milk price has only increl&ed by 40% indicates a substantial increase in the
quantities subsidized. Between 1968 and 1977, the Community was
forcecj^to sell 15% of butter production and 80% of skimmed milk proc^^ion in powdered or liquid form, at reduced prices. After the
increase in expenditure in 1976 and 1977, the rate of increase ^f expenditure on milk products appears to be slowing down and the
share of EAGGF Guarantee Section expenditure on milk products has stabilized around 38% .
ιI!II Number of dairy cows
^ kg/cow – 4000 3500 yf- 3500
kg/cow YîbÏT'
However, two remarks must be made concerning the Community's import commitments. First of all, if such commitments were to disappear these products would be transferred to the world market where they
would compete with Community products. Secondly, these quantities, ^ which in the case of butter come up for review in 1980 are fixed,
while the gap between Community production and available outlets-ji^ doomed to increase steadily in the future. In other words, it is false to believe that stopping imports would solve the milk problem in
the long term and relieve the Community of its responsibility to
restore the balance. It would in effect only be a sj^&-term remedy, and the problem would re-emerge in due course as atf§fcely as ever.
20. In this context the main point to be borne in mind is that the world market is in a state of relative saturation, so that the scope for reasonably priced exports is limited .
In recent years the world market f^£?toilk products has not been in balance , since production has . io$teased faster than consumption . In
an effort to restore the marked balance , some of the larger milk- producing countries succeeded temporarily at least, in reducing the production of certain milk products such as butter and skimmed milk
powder. However, ir^feher parts of the world milk production is increasing, so tl^S^global supply is increasing faster than demand. Available proj^:ions suggest that the world imbalance will persist in the short and medium term .
The nitfSsures deployed
the creation of the common organization of markets in 1968 the Community has constantly had to take measures to deal with the
imbalance on the milk market. Three factors have thwarted such efforts. Firstly the size and unconditional nature of the guarantee given by the common organization of markets itself.
Secondly, the very close link between beef production and milk production means that the measures taken to support prices in the two sectors have a cumulative effect where the milk producer is concerned; the result is that measures in favour of beef and veal may actually
encourage milk production. Finally, events outside the influence or^ control of the milk policy in force may directly counteract the 4^" objectives pursued: examples of this are the monetary situatiorf^the
fall in the price of feedingstuffs and the prolonged economic recession .
22. Of all the instruments employed in the milk sector,^jbe price policy
is the most important . The price freeze applied^j^tween 1969 and 1971 showed clearly that producers react to such a policy, as they did also
when prices caught up in subsequent years. A very cautious prices policy has again been pursued over the last two marketing years.
The last ten years have shown that ^fiyincrease in production is set
off by three phenomena, particul^J^ when they appear in combination as has been the case in the Coqj§anity. These are:
(a) an attractive milk price level;
(b> an unconditional guarantee system in respect of butter and milk
(c) the lack of ja^jpsibi lities for conversion to other types of productions^
By and large, this has indeed been the situation ever since the introduction of the common organization of the market in milk and milk produ^j^, even in marketing years when the milk price did not increase
oi^Jjincreased only slightly, and it has applied particularly to ^^"idings with a good average structure.
It should also be said that the relationship between milk prices and the prices of other products, and also the relationship between the price of products and the cost of producing them, has accentuated the trend to increase milk production.
Consequently, under this system of unconditional guarantees, all the conditions existed for an increase in milk production, whereas the sole economic check to any increase in the volume of production, namely dissuasion through prices, did not exist at all, or was inadequate .
It is not true, as some people think, that a higher price level would have dissuaded the farmers from increasing the quantities produced or that a reduction in prices would stimulate production . In effect , in view of the unlimited quantities of non-Community feedingstuffs available with a more favourable feedingstuff /mi Ik price ratio and the advantages of improved animal genetics, better stalling and better
milking techniques, farmers naturally tend to increase production as^^^
long as an incentive is provided by the relationship of the milk ^^e to feeding-costs and to the interest rates on the loans raised ^
The price policy should therefore act as a brake on investments in thissector. Thisisallthemorelikelytobeeffe^J^esincea
growing number of farms purchase the greater part^^^their feeding- stuffs outside the Community and need increased^Tnancial resources to improve the quality of their herds or to make the necessary invest­ ments for animal housing.
For this reason the Commission is st^^convinced that the cautious
price policy which it has already^^fated is the cornerstone of any measure to restore balance on tM&nilk market,.
On the other hand, the Commission considers that the case of small milk producers should be carefully examined since a tough price policy could place them in a^vpry difficult economic and social situation.
In recent years Commission has proposed to the Council a cautious price policy a$$&mpanied by other measures.
Of these the co-responsibility levy which was introduced in 1977
should^have played a major part . If such was not the case this was- becgkfffe the idea of a variable levy was not accepted. As a result
levy has not served the purpose of cutting back milk production; ^ts object has rather been to make milk producers share the financial
responsibility for it within certain limits.
It is against this background that the co-responsibility levy should be judged, and it should also be recalled that the introduction of
this levy was partially offset by the price increase decided at the same time.
At its current level, the maintenance of the levy may be open to question, as receipts barely exceed collection costs. However, the impact that a variable levy would have, whether or not accompanied by amendments to the intervention system, should not be overlooked.
1970=100 ( Index in national currency )
Data are lacking for Denmark
26. Since the beginning of the common market in milk the Community has tried to increase outlets for milk products both within the Community and outside. These measures relate especially to butter , to liquid skimmed milk and to skimmed milk powder . They were continually expanded and as a result have given rise to increasingly heavy budgetary expenditure.
In any case, the introduction of the levy has served to make public opinion more- aware of the seriousness of the problems.
24. The imbalance on the milk market arises because there are more
dairy cows than are justified by the market outlets. For that ^ reason the Commission as far back as 1969 has sought to get to
the root of the problem by introducing a system of premiums for slaughtering dairy cows and the non-marketing of milk and then in 1973 a system of premiums for the conversion of dairy .herds to meat production. This set of measures met with appy^iable
success. Since the imbalance persisted, the Commur^^ intro­ duced a system of non-marketing and conversion p,^^nums in 1977. During the first ten months of its application about 400 000
cows or 1.6% of the dairy herd were slaughtered under this
system. As the measure proved inadequa^, the Community decided
to reinforce this system considerably^! 1978. However, even such a reinforced system cannot the milk problem on its
own; it could be much more eff^&ive if backed up by other measures to restrict milk production.
In connection with th^jgricultural price proposals for 1978/79 the Commission had ^j&posed to suspend intervention in respect
of skimmed milk ^jSraer during the winter months. This proposal which was not adopted and is still before the Council shows
that it is possible to modify the present rigid intervention system because the proposed aid would have represented a guar^fcj^e of some value for producers.
27. The Community has implemented a number of important measures to stimulate outlets for butter. Since 1973 the then existing measures have been supplemented by the introduction of a system
of aid for butter consumption which has been applied in the
United Kingdom and intermittently in Ireland, Denmark and Luxembourg. While the quantities disposed of under these special measures have not increased considerably, disposal costs have cof^ tinued to rise .
Thus by applying the special measures in 1973 110 000 ^jtaes of butter from public stocks were sold on the internaI^j§j^ket at a
costofabout1200u.a.pertonne; in1977the^j^Vesponding quantity was 140 000 tonnes and the cost was about 1 500 u.a. per
tonne. Such measures cannot be developed further without risk of
reduced economic and financial effectiveness. Other measures,
such as the subsidy for milk product^jSonsumed in schools, though useful, cannot in themselves provi^fli^a solution.
28. With regard to animal feed, technical developments and the level
of prices of substitute feedingstuffs for milk have created a situation in which liquid milk or skimmed milk powder can no longer
be marketed without<*tTcreasingly substantial subsidies. Thus at
present the Comn^^ty is obliged to subsidize 45% of the milk powder for feeding to calves and 85% of the amount for the pig industry.
In the^rig industry the unit cost of the aid is high. However, it
shouJ^ft>e pointed out that in 1977 an outlet was thus ensured for
4^300 tonnes of skimmed milk powder (one quarter of the Community ^ oduction) which otherwise would have been taken by vegetable
The aid granted for liquid skimmed milk has an equivalent effect
but also has the advantage of making processing into powder unneces­ sary and thereby eliminates the resultant storage costs. In order to ensure that this aid is effective the Commission considers that it should be made permanent.
 The Community has continually made use of the disposal possi­ bilities available on the world market. At present the refunds granted on butter represent about 70% of its value, those granted on skimmed milk powder sometimes as much as 85%. Although the quantity of milk products being delivered as food aid is increas­ ing, it is still rather limited; in volume, it represents about one third of the butter and milk powder exports. <
If many of the measures taken have seemed inadequate to solve
the problem of imbalance, it is not so much the fault o^?he
measures in themselves or of the manner in which the^&ave been
applied, but rather because increases in producti^^stimulated by the system of guarantees have counteracted ttvhr effect . More­
over, a number of measures, whether at national or even Community
level, tend to run counter to the objective of balancing the milk market. This is the case, for exampl^fenth certain national aid
measures; although it is difficul^^b make an accurate assessment of the importance and impact of 4£&ional subsidies granted directly
or indirectly to the milk sector, the total expenditure which the
Member States milliard u.a . suggests that
incurred in the agricultural sector (more than six in 1977, <apart from expenditure in the social field) the an^Ap-it spent directly or indirectly on milk is
high, given the ^pbrtance of the sector.
The Commission has, in this connection, paid particular attention to dairies: from 1964 to 1977, the Guidance Section of the EAGGF
finai^^more than 700 projects in the milk sector, representing
a^^al investment of almost 1.5 milliard u.a. Certain projects Elating to the production of surplus products were not financed
by the Fund. Thus while aid granted for projects in the milk sector represented up to 1973 40% of all eid granted for the marketing and processing of agricultural products, it was less than 10% in 1977. The policy on the modernization of farms (Directive 72/159/EEC)
had some effect but the effect was limited by delays in implementa­ tion in most of the Community regions.
Consumption at marcei^Ckices
The outlook
31. All the information at present available to the Commission indicates
that the situation can only get worse.
Consumption can be maintained at its present level only through a steady *
increase in budgetary expenditure; the possibility of it rising, save^j^ through an excessive financial effort, seems completely ruled out^£^ Similarly, given the situation of imbalance prevailing on the world
market, there is no hope for any substantial increase in Community
exports at satisfactory price levels; food aid in itself ^»l probably provide only limited additional outlets .
32. On the other hand, there is no indication that theS&eady increase in production will stop. Although livestock numbers have remained more or less constant, with probably slightly less than 25 million
dairy cows following the measures current^j^being implemented, milk production should continue to rise to steadily increasing
yields. Moreover, until 1980, butte^&vailabilities will continue to be affected by contractual import obligations . Cheese imports
will be similarly affected by agreements entered into under GATT.
33. The imbalance between s^^fy and demand will no doubt lead to in­ creased quantities <^§^red for intervention. Disposal of such products
will soon give ris^to problems because of saturation on internal and external markets and the prohibitive nature of the financial effort required .
34. The {D^^ible enlargement of the Community to include Greece, Portugal anc^pain will not make it easier to dispose of milk products.
These countries , in spite of being net importers of milk products , have rather limited import needs and these are largely takien care of by the Community as now constituted.
In these countries, the dairy herd is not great and yields per
cow are low; on the other hand, there are relatively large
numbers of sheep and goats.
The application of the common organization of markets to these *
countries, however, will probably lead to increased production on the milk sector, particularly in Spain where production
has increased by more than 50 % over the last ten years.
35. It would be futile to attempt to assess with any precisionshe quantities of milk products for which there will be a^jjS^plus
allowed to go on as it is, the imbalance on the mi5
in coming years. But it is certain that, if the siti^^on is
only get worse without there being the slightest hope of reducing it .
