In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
4. Objectif t
ex bb) andere :
ex 2. andere :
ex bb) andere :
' proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC )
totally or partially suspending Common Customs
Tariff duties on certain products, falling within Chapters 1 to 24 of the Common Customs Tariff,
The Counoil had agreed that from 1 January 1974 Malta should "bo given treatment no loss favourable than that accorded to the other countrien
which benefit from generalised preferences.
The ob.jeot of the Regulation annexed hereto is to put thia deoision into practice; itextendstoMalta,autonomouolyduring197^»"thototalor partial suspension of the Common Customs Tariff Duties on the products in Chapters 1 to 24 which the Commission proposed in connection with the generalised preferences•
The proposal ooncerno only those produots which are of interest to Malta in respect of whioh Community treatment of Malta is no more favourable than the treatment given under the generalised preferences#
As tho Regulation is based on Artioles 43 and 113 of the Treaty establishing tho European Economio Community, the European Parliament must be consulted.
Attention ia drawn to the fact that both the content of the Regulation and the list of products annexed to it are direotly related to the Commission*a proposal to the Counoil concerning generalised preferenoes in respeot to the products falling within Chaptero 1 to 24 of the Common Customs Tariff •
The annexed proposal will therefore have to be aligned on the final toxt
of the abovementioned Regulation when the latter has been adopted by the Counoil .
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No of
on the total or partial suspension of Common Customs Tariff duties on certain products falling within Chapters 1 to 24 of the Common Customs Tariff, origi-,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 43 and 113 thereof,
Having regard to Council Regulation (EEC) No 1059/69 of 28 May 1969 laying down the trade arran­ gements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products ('), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 3058/75 (2), and in particular
Article 12 thereof, <
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European Parlia­ ment (3),
Whereas, under Annex I to the Agreement esta­ blishing an Association between the European Economic Community and Malta (4), the Community must partially suspend the Common Customs Tariff duties applicable to certain products ; whereas it also appears necessary provisionally to adjust or to supple­ ment certain of the tariff benefits provided for in the abovementioned Annex ; whereas, accordingly, the Community should, in respect of the products origi­ nating in Malta listed in the Annex to this Regulation, suspend either the fixed component of the levy appli­ cable to goods coming under Regulation (EEC) No 1059/69 or the customs duty applicable to the other products from I January to 31 December 1979 and at the levels indicated for each of them,
I. From 1 January to 31 December 1979, (|u. products originating in Malta , listed in the Annex , shall be admitted for import into the Community at the customs duties indicated for each of them.
2. For the purposes of the application of this Regu­ lation, the rules of origin shall he those in force at the
time as regards the implementation of the Agreement establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and Malta.
when products benefiting from the arrangements provided for in Article 1 are imported in the Commu­ nity in such quantities or at such prices that Commu­ nity producers of products similar to or in direct competition with them suffer or are likely to suffer from serious disadvantage, the Common Customs Tariff duties may be reintroduced in whole or in part on the products in question. Such measures may also be taken in the event of actual or potential serious disadvantage in a single region of the Community.
2. In the event of such action being requested by a
Member State, the Commission shall take a decision
within a period of not more than 10 working days
from receipt of the request and shall inform the Member States of the action taken.
3. Any Member State may refer to the Council the measure taken by the Commission, within a period of
not more than l() working days after it has been informed thereof. The fact that the matter is referred to the Council shall not cause the measure to be suspended. The Council shall meet immediately. It may, acting on a qualified majority, amend or rescind the measure in question.
I'liis Regulation shall cuter into force on I January IV79 .
In order to ensure the application of Article 2,
the Commission may decide, by means of a Regula­ tion, to reintroduce the levying of customs duties for a limited period.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council• The President
Description Rate of duty 2 .1
Horsehair and horsehair waste, whether or not put up as a layer or between two layers of other material :
B. Other
Vegetables, fresh or chilled : ex T. Other :
Berries, fresh : F. Other
Fatty acids, acid oils from refining ; fatty alcohols : C. Other fatty acids ; acid oils from refining
Other prepared or preserved nu.it or me.it otl.il :
Meat and edible offals of the animals falling within heading No 01.01 , 01.02, 01.03, or 01.04 fresh, chilled or frozen :
b) Other
Other meat and edible meat offals, fresh, chilled or frozen : ex A. Of domestic pigeons
ex B. Furred game, frozen
C. Other :
ex I. -Frogs' legs II. Other
bb) Other
Vegetables prepared or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid :
Fruit juices (including grape must) and vegetable juices, whether or not containing added sugar, but unfermented and not containing spirit :
A. Of a specific gravity exceeding 1 - i.l at IS°C : III. Other :
ex a) Of a value exceeding 50 u.a. per 100 kg net weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 B, E ami F and 08.09 , excluding pineapples , melons and watermelons
b) Of a value not exceeding .10 u.a. per 100 kg net weight :
cx I. With an added sugar content exceeding id % by weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 H, R and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
ex 2. Other:
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 », I: and F and 08.09, exi hiding
Description Rate of duty I2Λ
B. Other :
II. Game or rabbit meat or offal :
III. Other :
b) Other :
1 . Containing bovine meat or offal :
ex bb) Other :
– Prepared or preserved bovine tongue
2. Other :
aa) Ovine meat or offal 18%
pineapples, melons and watermelons
B. Of a specific gravity of 1-33 or less at 15 C : II. Other:
a) Of a value exceeding 30 u.a. per 100 kg net weight : 2. Grapefruit juice
ex 3. Other citrus fruit juices :
aa) Containing added sugar bb) Other
6. Other fruit and vegetable juices, excluding apricot and peach juices :
ex aa) Containing added sugar :
Rate of duty
Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
ex bb) Other :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding , pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
ex bb) Other, excluding mixtures containing cither separately or together, over 2S % of grape, citrus fruit, pineapple, apple, pear, tomato, apricot or peach juice :
II . Containing added sugar 22. Other
b) Of a value of 30 u.a. or less per 100 kg net weight: 2. Grapefruit juice :
aa) With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight
bb) Other
4. Other citrus fruit juices :
aa) With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight
bb) With an added sugar content of 30 % or less by weight
cc) Not containing added sugar
Description Kate of duty
7. Other fruit and vegetable juices, excluding apricot • and peach juice :
ex aa) With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples , melons and watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
ex bb) With an added sugar content of 30 % or less by weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
ex cc) Not containing added sugar :
– Fruit falling within leading Nos 08.01, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
ex bb) Other, excluding mixtures containing cither separately or together, over 2S % of grape, citrus fruit, pineapple, apple, pear, tomato, apricot or peach juice :
1 1 . With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight
22. With an added sugar content of 30 % or less by weight
33 . Not containing added sugar
Nartural yeasts (active or inactive) ; prepared baking powders :
A. Active natural yeast : II . Bakers' yeast :
b) Other I_1
Rate of duty
23.01 Flours and meal, of meat, offals, fish, crustaceans or molluscs, unfit for human consumption ; greaves :
B. Flours and meals of fish, crustaceans or molluscs
ex T. andere :
ex bb) andere :
b) ander.
B. ander
B. andcre : v
b) andcre :
ex bb) andere : •
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC )
on the total or partial suspension of Common Customs Tariff duties on certain products, falling within Chapters 1 to 24 of the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Malta (1979)
( submitted to the Council by the Commission )
COM(78)376 final Brussels , 27 July 1978
 CTho Counoil ham agrood that' from 1 Jan-awry 1974- 2'Salta, (should "bo givea. treatment no loos favourable than that aooordcsd to the othor countries
which "bonofit frora generalised preferences .
Tho oh.joot of the Regulation annexed hereto ia to put thin deoision into practice; it coctondo to Jfalta, autonomously during 197^> the total or partial suspension of the Corson Customs Tariff Duties on tho products
in Chapters 1 to 24 which tho Comrciaaion proposed in connection with the £oneraliaed preferences*
Tho propooal ooncernc only those products which are of interact to M&lta'' in respect of t/hioh -Community treatment of Malta in no more favovxrahls than the . troatioont given under th<9 generalised prafarenoes . " ■ .
An tho Regulation ia based on Artioles 43 and 113 of tho Treaty establishing tho European Economic Coraravinity, the European • Parliament' rauat be • consult ad •
•Attention ia drawn to tho fact that both the content of tha Rogul'ation arid tho lint of producta annexed to it are directly related to the Coomisoica1a proposal to the Council oonoorr.ing; generalised prefoi-enoqa in. respect to
-ho products falling vrithin Chapters 1 to 24 of tho Cororoon Ouetoms Tariff .•
*no Q?inGxe^ proposal will thar&for© hava to be aligned on the fin.su text
"the aooveaer.tloned Regulation vlson "tho letter 3xaa 1-oeu ailop^od "by tha Coiuioil , .
 Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
on the total or partial suspension of Common Customs Tariff duties on certain products falling within Chapters 1 to 24 of the Common Customs Tariff, origi-,
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Articles 43 and 113 thereof,
Having regard to . Council Regulation (EEC) No 1059/69 of 28 May 1969 laying clown the trade arran­ gements applicable to certain goods resulting from the orocessing of agricultural products ('), as last amended by Regulation (EEC) No 3058/7.5 (*), and in particular Article 12 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Having regard to the opinion of the European. Parlia­ ment (3), * ,
Whereas, under Annex I to the Agreement esta­ blishing an Association between the European Economic Community and Malta (*), the Community must partially suspend the Common Customs Tariff duties applicable to certain products ; whereas it also appears necessary provisionally to adjust or to supple­ ment certain of the tariff benefits provided for in the above-mentioned Annex whereas , accordingly, the
Community should, in respect of the products origin nating in Malta listed in the Annex to this"Regulation, suspend either the fixed component of the levy appli­ cable to goods coming under Regulation (EEC) No 1059/69 or the customs duty applicable to the other products from 1 January to 31 December 1979 and. at the levels indicated for each of them,.
1. From i January to 31 December 197°, the products originating in Malta , listed in the Annex , shall be admitted for import into the Community at the customs duties indicated for each of them.
2. For the purposes of the application of this Regu­ lation, the rules of origin shall be those in force at the
time as regards the implementation of the-Agreement establishing an Association between the European Economic Community and Malta.
When products beneliting from the arrangements provided for in Article 1 a*e imported in the Commu­ nity in such quantities or at such prices that Commu­ nity producers of products similar to or in direct competition with them suffer or ar.e likely to suffer from serious disadvantage, the_ Common 1 Customs Tariff duties may be reintroduced in whole or in part on the products in question. Such measures may also be taken in the event of actual or potential serious disadvantage in a single region of the Community.
1. In order to ensure the application ot Article 2, the Commission may decide, by means of a Regula­ tion, to reintroduce the levying of customs duties for a limited period. ..'■**
2. In the event of such action being requested by a
Member State, the Commission shall take a decision
within a period of not more than 10 working days
from receipt of the request and shall inform the Member States of the action taken .
3. Any Member State may refer to the Council the measure taken by the Commission, within a period of
not more than 10 working days after it has been informed thereof. The fact that the matter is referred
to the Council shall not cause the .. measure to be suspended. The Council shall meet immediately. It may, acting on a qualified majority, amend or rescind, the measure in question.
This Regulation shall enter into force on l January 1979. :
 This 'Regulation snail be binding io its entirety and directly applicable in ali-Mei States . •
For the Council . The President.■
heading Description Rate of duly
Meal and edible offals of the animals falling within heading No 01.01, 01.02, 01.03, or 01.04 fresh, chilled or frozen :
Other meat and edible meat offals, fresh, chilled or frozen : ■ ex A. Of domestic pigeons
• -ex B. Furred game, frozen - C. Other :
ex I. Frogs' legs II. Other
Horsehair and horsehair waste, whether or not put up as a layer . or between two layers of other material : .
B. Other
Vegetables, fresh or chilled :
Berries, fresh : F. Other
Fatty acids, acid oils from refining ; fatty alcohols : C. Other fatty acids ; acid oils from refining
Other prepared or prcKerved ni'cat or meat offal : A. Liver :
I. Coo>e or duck liver ■
II. Game or rabbit meat or offal :
III. Other :
b) Other :
1. Containing bovine roeat or offal :
Rate of duly
Vegetables prepafed or preserved otherwise than by vinegar or acetic acid :
Fruit juices (including grape must) and vegetable juices, whether'
or not containing added' sugar, but utifermented and not
B. Other :
b) Of ft value not exceeding 30 u.a. per 100 kg net weight :
cx 1. With an added sugar content exceeding .50 % by weight r
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.0 !, i 08.08 I}, E and F and 08.09, excluding \ pineapples , melons and watermelons .j
ex 2. Other :
i– Ftuit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
' 2.Other:
aa) Ovine meat or offal
bb) Other
ex bb) Other:
... – Prepared or preserved bovine tongue
A. -Of a specific gravity exceeding I -.13 at I5°C : IU.Other: , _' ■ . .
ex a) Of a value exceeding .50 u.a. per 100 kg net weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09 , excluding pineapples , melons and watermelons
B. Of a specific gravity of 1-33 or less at 15 °C : II. Other :
– Other, excluding apricot and peach
ex bb) Other :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos
08.01 , 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09 ,
e)( 3. Other citrus fruit juices :
aa) Containing added sugar . bb) Other "
a) Of a value exceeding 30 u.a. per 100 kg net weight : 2. Grapefruit juice
Other fruit and vegetable apricot and peach juices :
ex aa) Containing added sugar :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos
08.01, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09,
excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach
cx bb) Other, excluding mixtures containing either separately or together, over 25 % of grape, citrus fruit, pineapple, apple, pear, tomato, apricot or peach juice :
II . Containing added sugar 17%
22. Other
b) Of a value of 30 u.a. or less per 100 kg net weight: 2. Grapefruit juice :
aa) With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight
bb) Other
4. Other citrus fruit juices :
aa) With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight
bb) With an added sugar content of 30 % or less by weight
14 % cc) Not containing added sugar 15%
Nartural yeasts (active or inactive); prepared baking powders :
A. Active natural yeast : II . Bakers' yeast :
b) Other
. ex cc) Not containing added sugar : -
– Fruit falling within leading Nos 08.01, 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding - pineapples, melons and- watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
*ex bb) Other, excluding mixtures containing either separately or together, over 25% of grape, citrus fruit, pineapple, apple, pear, tomato, apricot or peach juice :
11 . With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight
22. With an added sugar content of 30%. or less by weight
33. Not containing added sugar
Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
Other, excluding apricot and peach- juices
7. Other fruit and vegetable juices, excluding apricot and peach juice :
- ex aa) With an added sugar content exceeding 30 % by weight :
– Fruit falling within heading Nos 08.01 , 08.08 B, E and F and 08.09, excluding pineapples, melons and watermelons
– Other, excluding apricot and peach juices
ex bb) With an added sugar content of 30 % or less by weight :
K.itc ot <4tity î
23.01 Flours and meal, of meat, offals, fish, crustaceans or molluscs, unfit for human consumption ; greaves :
B. Flours and meals of fish, crustaceans or molluscs
