In accordance with Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom) No 354/83 of 1 February 1983 concerning the opening to the public of the historical archives of the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community (OJ L 43, 15.2.1983, p. 1), as amended by Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1700/2003 of 22 September 2003 (OJ L 243, 27.9.2003, p. 1), this file is open to the public. Where necessary, classified documents in this file have been declassified in conformity with Article 5 of the aforementioned regulation.
For officiai use onty
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for certain textile fibres falling within heading Wo 56.04 of the Common Customs
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for men's and boy's outer
-garments falling within heading No' 61.01 of the Common Customs Tariff, originating in Cyprus (1980)
1. TheAgreementestablishinganAssociationbetweentheEuropean Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus, together with the Protocol laying down certain provisions relating to that Agreement consequent on the accession of new Member States to the European Economic Community and the Additional Protocol
. to this Agreement provides for the opening of the following annual duty-free Community tariff quotas for products origina­ ting in Cyprus : '
Man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste) carded, combed or other­ wise prepared for spinning
Men's and boys' outer garments
100 metric tons
500 metric tons
2. InordertofulfiltheCommunity'sobligationtoCyprusin1980/ regulations should be adopted opening, allocating and providing for the administration. of these Community tariff quotas*
3. The approval of these Regulations depends, however, on the entry ' into force of a Transitional Protocol on 1 January 1980 (to be annexed to the Association Agreement. EEC (Cyprus).
This Protocol ought to be negotiated before the "fend of this year in order to extend the first stage of the abovementioned Agreement once more .
Pending the outcome of the negociations, it is already
Necessary, for technical reasons, to submit proposals
allowing the Community and Cyprus to maintain commercial ι
relations. In order not to disturh the.commercial flow
of the goods in question the tariff quotas should be
opened on 1 January 1980. In this case the first "whereas clause of each Regulation ought to be dapated consequently.
theregulationsprovide,uiitherule,foreachofthequotasto •
be divided Into two Instalments, the first of which Is allocated
among the Member States while the.second constitute the reserve*,
The allocation of the first Instalment 1s usually based on the statistics for the previous three years and the forecasts for the quotaperiodconcerned. However,1nthiscase,thisprinciplecannot beappliedtotheproductsInquestion. For,during thepastthree years, these were no Imports of man-made fibres falling within tariff- headingNo56.04andthe!Imports6$outergarmentsfallingwithin , tariffheadingNo61.01wereInsignificant* Inthissituation1t seemsalsoVerydifficulttodrawupforecastsfor1930. •:
To allocate the quotas m question nevertheless equitably among
Member States, it appears desirable to provide for a significant share of the quota amount for each of the Member States . Obviously, this formula will have to be adapted subsequently
in the light of actual trade movements .
This is the purpose of the Proposals annexed hereto .
Annexes : 2 proposals of Regulations of the Council .
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for certain textile fibres, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the Agreement establishing an association between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus ('), as amended by the Additional Protocol to that Agreement (2), provides for the opening of an annual duty-free Community tariff quota of 100 tonnes of man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise prepared for spinning, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus; whereas the tariff quota in question should be opened for 1980 ;
Whereas it is in particular necessary to ensure for all Community importers equal and uninterrupted access to the abovementioned quota and uninterrupted application of the rates laid down for that quota to all imports of the products concerned into all Member States until the quota has been used up; whereas, having regard to the above principles, the Community nature of the quota can be respected by allocating the
Community tariff quota among the Member States; whereas, in order to reflect as accurately as possible the true trend of the market in the products in question, such allocation should be in proportion to the requirements of the Member States, calculated by reference to the statistics of imports of the goods in question from Cyprus over a representative reference period and also to the economic outlook for the quota period concerned;
Whereas, however, during the past three years no such products originating in Cyprus have been imported into
the Community; whereas no forecast can be made for
1980;whereas to ensure fair distribution of the quota amount between the Member States each Member State
should make a significant contribution to the quota amount; whereas such contributions may approximately correspond to the following percentages:
Whereas, in order to take into account import trends for the products concerned in the various Member States, the quota volume should be divided into two instalments, the first being shared among the Member States and the second constituting a reserve to cover at a later date the requirements of the Member States which have used up their initial quota shares; whereas, in order to give importers in each Member State a certain degree of security, the first instalment of the Community quota should, under the present circumstances, be fixed at 60% of the quota volume;
Whereas the Member States' initial shares may be used up at different times; whereas, in order to take this fact into account and avoid any break in continuity, any Member State which has almost used up its initial share should draw an additional share from the reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional shares is almost used up, and repeated as many times as the reserve allows; whereas the initial and additional shares must be valid until the end of the quota period; whereas this method of administration requires close cooperation between Member States and the Commission and the latter must be in a position to monitor the extent to which the quota volume has been used up and to inform the Member States thereof;
Whereas if, at a given date in the quota period, a substantial quantity remains unused in any Member State, it is essential that that Member State should
return a significant proportion to the reserve, to prevent
 a part of any tariff quota from remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others;
Whereas, since the Kingdom' of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united, in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any operation relating'to the administration of the quota shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any of its members ,
From 1 January until 31 December 1980 ,the Common Customs Tariff duties in respect of man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise prepared for spinning, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus, shall be entirely suspended within the limits of a Community tariff quota of 100 tonnes.
1. The tariff quota referred to in Article 1 shall be divided into two instalments. "
2. A first instalment amounting to 60 tonnes shall be allocated among the Member States; the shares, which subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December 1%0 , shall be as follows:
draw a second share equal to 15% of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
2. If, after its initial share has been used up, 90% or more of the second share drawn by a Member State,has been used up , then that Member State shall , in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5% of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
3. If, after its second share has been used up, 90% or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 draw a, fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall continue until the reserve is used up.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 arid 3, a Member State may draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that they might not be used up . It shall inform the Commission of its reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1980 *
The Member States shall return -to the reserve, not later than 1 October 15B0, such unused portion of their
initial shares as, on 15 September 1980 ,is m excess of 20% of the initial volume. They may return a larger quantity if there are grounds for believing that it may not be used.
The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 19 80 /lotify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 September 1980and charged against the tariff quota, and of any quantity of the initial shares returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and 3 and shall, as soon as it is notified, inform each Member State of the extent to which the reserve has
been used up as soon as it receives the notifications.
3. The second instalment of 40 tonnes shall constitute
the reserve. . v
1. If 90% or more of a Member State's initial share as specified in Article 2 (2), or 90% of that share minus
the portion returned to the reserve where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, then, . to the extent permitted by the amount of the reserve, that Member State shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission,
 It shall inform the Member States, not later than 5 October 1980 , of the amount in the reserve after quantities have been returned thereto pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which exhausts the reserve does not exceed the balance
available, and to this end, shall notify the amount of the balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
1. The Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their accumulated share of the Community quota.
2. The Member States shall ensure that importers of the products in question established in their territory have free access to the shares allocated to them.
3. The Member States shall charge imports of the products in question against their share as and w hen the goods are entered with customs authorities tor home use.
4. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraph 3.
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely in order to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
This Regulation shall enrer into force on 1 January 1980 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at Brussels,
For the Council The President
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for men's and boys' outer garments, falling within heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs
Tariff and originating in Cyprus (19 80) < '
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European - Economic Community, and in particular Article 113
thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the - Agreerrient establishing an association between the European Economic Community and the
Republic of Cyprus i'),,as amended by the Additional ,^ Protocol to that Agreement (2), provides for tin* opening of an annual duty-free Community tariff quota of 500 .tonnes of -faery's and-boys' outer garments, falling within heading No 61.01 pf-thp Common- Customs Tariff and originating 111 Cyprus;, whereas the tariff" quota in question should be opened for 19 go *
Whereas it is in particular necessary ro. ensure for all CoimiHimu importers equal and uninterrupted access' to the abo\ emenuoned quota . and uninterrupted, application or the r.ites laid down tor that quota .to all inipons o(.the piotltitts concerned into all .Vkmhcx• States until tile- qfiou has been uwd 'Jp;, whereas, havi;^, regaiJ to the above principles, the"Community nature ot ' ii ic quota ean, Le •. respected - bv allocating the Coiitmuiiiiy tariff quota, anVong the Member States; whereas, in order"to re'tiect as accurately as 'possible, the true trend ot the market m the products, in question. ; such allocation should be' in proportion to . rhc
requirements of .the Member States, calculated by reference to the statistics of imports of the said goods tVoin Cyprus over a representative reference period and the economic outlook for the quota period concerned;
Wherfeas, howeVer. during the past three years only one .Member State has imported, and m an insignificant quantity , the said goods ; whereas no forecast can be nude for i ^80 ; whereas to ensure fair distribution of the quota amount .between the Member States each
Member State should make a significant contribution to the quota amount; whereas such contributions inay approximately correspond to the following percentages:
France . Ireland
Whereas, in order to take into account, import Trends for the products concerned in the vnrious Member
States, the quota volume should be divided info, two instalments, the first being shared among the Member Srates arid the second constituting a reserve to covet at a later date the requirements of the Member States which have used , up . their initial quota .shares; whereas, ui order, to give importers in each Member Siate-a certain degree of security . ' the fir>t instalment of the
'Community quota should, under present circumsrapccs. be fixed ar 46-'<. or the quota voiurfie: ,
\\ heiyas the Member -States' in
up at Jjrfereii! rimes; whereas, -i
ilno account .'.and- a* Old anv f
Member State, winch has ahnos: used up k-> inniai re- should draw an additional snare , rror.; ri;e icsme :! whereas this mus^ be .done b\ . eaeh .Viembe-r State a> and wh.ei. eaeh of its addition./! ,sl)arCs is a'mosr tKeu up, and repealed as- many times usvthe reserve allow-,, whereas the initial and additional shares must be valid until the end of the quota period; whereas this method
of administration requires close cooperation between 'Member States and the Commission and the latter must ■be in a position to monitor the extent to which the- quota volume has been used up and to inform the
Member States thereof; j
Whereas it, at a gi\en date m the quota period, a substantial quantity remains unused in anv Member State, it is essential that that Meijiber State should ivram a significant proportion lu.t'ne n;»e've, to- prevein- apartotanytariffquotafroi.n emainingbruisedinone Member StateWhen it'couid be used in'others;
iv . i )V i-'v; it : nturv .
 Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any operation relating to the administration of the quota shares granted to that economic union may be carried out by any of its members, .
From 1 January until 31 December 1330 , the Common Customs Tariff duty in respect of men's and boys' outer garments, falling within heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus, shall- be entirely suspended within the limits of a Community tariff quota of 500 tonnes.
1. The tariff quota referred to in Article 1 shall be divided into two instalments.
2. A first instalment amounting to 230 tonnes shall be allocated among the Member States; the shares, which subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December 19 80 shall be as follows:
been used up , then that Member State shall , in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5% of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
3. If, after its second share has been used up, 90% or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall continue until the reserve is used up.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that they might not be used up . It shall inform the Commission of its reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1980 .
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later
than 1 October 19 &0 ,such unused portion of their
initial share as, on 15 September 19 80 js in excess of
20% of the initial volume. They may return a larger
quantity if there are grounds for believing that it may not be used.
The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 1980 /lotify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up t<5 15 September 19 80 ind charged against the tariff quota, and of any
quantity of the initial shares returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and
3 and shall , as soon as it is notified , inform each Member State of the extent to which the reserve has
been used up as soon as it receives the notifications.
It shall inform the Member States, not later than
5 October 1980 , °f the amount in the reserve after quantities have been returned thereto pursuant to Article 5. •
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which exhausts the reserve does not exceed the balance
The second instalment of 270 tonnes shall constitute
the reserve.
1. If 90% or more of a Member State's initial share as specified in Article 2 (2), or 90% of that share minus the portion returned to the reserve where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up,( then to the extent permitted by the amount of the reserve, that Member State shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share equal to 15% of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
2. If, after its initial share has been used up, 90% or • more of the second share drawn by a Member State has
 available, and to this end, shall notify the amount of the balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
1. The Member States shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that additional shares drawn pursuant to
Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their accumulated, share of the Community quota.
2. The Member States shall ensure that importers of the products in" question established in their territory have free access to the share allocated to them.
3.- The Member States shall charge imports of the products in question against their share as and when the goods are entered with customs authorities for home use .
4. The extent to which a Member State used up its share shall be determined on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraph 3. '
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall
inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 19 80 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at Brussels,
For the Council The Presitic/u
1erIand 2, Italie
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for certain textile fibres, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs
Tariff and originating in Cyprus (1980)
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC)
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for men's and boys', outer
garments, falling within heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus (1980)
(submitted to the Council by the Commission)
Man-made fibres ( discontinuous or waste) carded, combed or other" wise prepared for spinning
Men's and boys' outer garments
The Agreement establishing an Association between the European • : Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus, together with V the Protocol laying down certain provisions relating to that . Agreement consequent on the accession of new Member States to ; the European Economic Community and the Additional Protocol
to this Agreement provides, for the opening of the following annual duty-free Community tariff quotas for products origina­
Description of goods
-- 'J.- In order to fulfil the Community's obligation to Cyprus in 1980 >
regulations should be adopted opening, allocating and providing m for the administration, of these Community tariff quotas*
The approval of these Regulations depends, however, on the entry into force of a Transitional Protocol on J January J980 (to be annexed to the Association Agreement EEC (Cyprus) ,
This Protocol ought to be negotiated before the end of this year . in order to extend the first stage of the abovementioned Agreement once more,
Pending the outcome of the negoci at ions , it is already Necessary , for technical reasons , to submit proposals allowing the Community, and Cyprus to maintain commercial
relations . In order not to disturb t he , cnmme.r c i a I flow
of the goods in question the tariff quotas should be_ opened on 1 January 1980. In this case the first "whereas"*
clause of each Regulation ought to be dapated consequently.
100 metric - tons \
- 500 metric tons ? , -M
 Theregulationsprovide,asistherule,foreachofthequotasto• »|
be divided into two instalments/ the first of which is allocated :
j among the Member States while the.second constitute the reserve**, \-■■■'1 "sv1 •.:f' 'rf-'S
. The allocation of the first instalment is usually based on the.
I statistics for the previous three years and the forecasts for the ,11.
beappliedtotheproductsinquestion. For,during thepastthree,' years, these were no imports of man-made fi.bres falling within tar
fheadingNo56*04andthe'imports6foutergarmentsfallingwithin'? ?Jj /tariffheadingNo61.01.wereinsignificant* Inthissltuation'ilv^I
^ seems also very difficult to draw up forecasts for "19
To allocate the quotas in question nevertheless equitably among Member States, it appears desirable to provide for a significant share of the quota amount for each of the Member States . Obviously, this formula will have to be adapted subsequently
in the light of actual trade movements .
This is the purpose of the Proposals annexed heretof
Annexes ; 2 proposals of Regulations- of the Council ,
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff qaota for certain textile fibres, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus (19 80)
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the Agreement establishing an association between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus ('), as amended by the Additional Protocol to that Agreement (2), provides for the opening of an annual duty-free Community tariff quota of 100 tonnes of man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise prepared for spinning, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus; whereas the tariff quota in question should be opened for 1980 J
Whereas it is in particular necessary to ensure for all Community importers equal and uninterrupted access to the abovementioned quota and uninterrupted application of the rates laid down for that quota to all imports of the products concerned into all Member States until the quota has been used up; whereas, having regard to the above principles, the Community nature of the quota can be respected by allocating the Community tariff quota among the Member States; whereas, in order to reflect as accurately as possible the true trend of the market in the products in question, such allocation should be in proportion to the requirements of the Member States, calculated by reference to the statistics of imports of the goods in
question from Cyprus over a representative reference period and also to the economic outlook for the quota period concerned;
Whereas, however, during the past three years no such products originating in Cyprus have been imported into
the Community; whereas no forecast can be made for
1980 ; whereas to ensure fair distribution of the quota amount between the Member States each Member State
.should make a significant contribution to the quota amount; whereas such contributions may approximately correspond to the following percentages:
Whereas, in order to take into account import trends for the products concerned in the various Member States, the quota volume should be divided into two instalments, the first being shared among the Member States and the second constituting a reserve to cover at a later date the requirements of the Member States which have used up their initial quota shares; whereas, in order to give importers in each Member State a certain degree of security, the. first instalment of the Community quota should , under the present circumstances, be fixed at 60% of the quota volume;
Whereas the Member States' initial shares may be used up at different times; whereas, in order to take this fact into.account and avoid any break in continuity, any Member State which has almost used up its initial share should draw an additional share from the reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional shares is almost used up, and repeated as many times as the reserve allows; whereas the initial and additional shares must be valid until the end of the quota period; whereas this method of administration requires close cooperation between Member States and the Commission and the latter must be in a position to monitor the extent to which the quota volume has been used up and to inform the Member States thereof;
Whereas if, at a given date in the quota period, a substantial quantity remains unused in any Member State, it is essential that that Member State should return a significant proportion to the reserve, to prevent
 a part of any tariff quota from remaining unused in on* Member State when it could be used in others;
Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united , in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any operation relating'to the administration of the quota shares allocated to that economic union may be carried out by any of its members ,
From 1 January until 31 December 1980 jhe Common Customs Tariff duties in respect of man-made fibres (discontinuous or waste), carded, combed or otherwise prepared for spinning, falling within heading No 56.04 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus, shall be entirely suspended within the limits of a Community tariff quota of 100 tonnes.
1. The tariff quota referred to in Article 1 shall be divided into two instalments.
2. A first instalment amounting to 60 tonnes shall be allocated among the Member States; the shares, which subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December 1$50,shall be as follows:
(tonnes) Bénélux 8 Denmark 6 Germany 12 France 12 Ireland 5 Italy 10 United Kingdom 7
1 . If 90% or more of a Member State's initial share as specified in Article 2 (2), or 90% of that share minus
the portion returned to the reserve where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, then, to the extent permitted by the amount of the reserve, that Member State shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission,
draw a aeeond share equal to 15% of In Initial «her«, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
2. If, after its initial share has been used up, 90% or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has been used up , then that Member State shall , in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5% of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
3. If, after its second share has been used up, 90% or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall continue until the reserve is used up.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that they might not be used up . It shall inform the Commission of its reasons for applying this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1980 .
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 October 12$0,'such unused portion of their
initial shares as, on 15 September 1980,'s 'n excess of 20% of the initial volume. They may return a larger quantity if there are grounds for believing that it may not be used.
The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 1980 ftotify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 September 19 80 and charged against the tariff quota, and of any quantity of the initial shares returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and
3 and shall, as soon as it is notified, inform each Member State of the extent to which the reserve has
been used up as soon as it receives the notifications.
The second instalment of 40 tonnes shall constitute
the reserve.
 It shall inform the Member States, not later than 5 October 1980 , of the amount in the reserve after quantities have been returned thereto pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which exhausts the reserve does not exceed the balance available, and to this end, shall notify the amount of the balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
1. The Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their accumulated share of the Community quota.
2. The Member States shall ensure that importers of the products in question established in their territory have free access to the shares allocated to them .
J. The Member Stat* shall charge import! of thti products in question against their share as and when the goods are entered with customs authorities for home use.
4. The extent to which a Member State has used up its share shall be determined on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraph 3.
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares .
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely in order to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1980 ,
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at Brussels,
For the Council The President
opening, allocating and providing for the administration of a Community tariff quota for men's and boys' outer garments, falling within heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs
Tariff and originating in Cyprus (19 80)
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas the Agreement establishing an association between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Cyprus ('), as amended by the Additional Protocol to that Agreement (2), provides for the opening of an annual duty-free Community tariff quota of 500 tonnes of men's and boys' outer garments, falling within heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus; whereas the tariff quota in question should be opened for 19 80 ;
Whereas it is in particular necessary to ensure for all Community importers equal and uninterrupted access to the above-mentioned quota and uninterrupted application ot the rates laid down for that quota to all imports 'of the products concerned into all Member States until the quota has been used up; whereas, having regard to the above principles, the Community nature of the quota can be respected by allocating the Community tariff quota among the Member States; whereas, in order to reflect as accurately as possible the true trend of the market in the products in question, such allocation should be in proportion to the requirements of the Member States , calculated by reference to the statistics of imports of the said goods from Cyprus over a representative reference period and the economic outlook for the quota period concerned;
Whereas, however, during the past three years only one Member State has imported, and in an insignificant quantity, the said goods; whereas no forecast can be made for 19g0;whereas to ensure fair distribution of the quota amount between the Member States each
Member State should make a significant contribution to the quota amount; whereas such contributions may approximately correspond to the following percentages:
Italy 9%i United Kingdom 49 %
Whereas, in order to take into account import trends for the products concerned in the various Member States, the quota volume should be divided into two instalments, the first being shared among the Member States and the second constituting a reserve to cover at a later date the requirements of the Member States which have used up their initial quota shares; whereas, in order to give importers in each Member State a certain degree of security, the first instalment of the Community quota should, under present circumstances, be fixed at 46% of the quota volume;
Whereas the Member States' initial shares may be used up at different times; whereas, in order to take this fact into account and avoid any break in continuity, any Member State which has almost used up its initial share should draw an additional share from the reserve; whereas this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional shares is almost used up, and repeated as many times as the reserve allows; whereas the initial and additional shares must be valid until the end of the quota period; whereas this method of administration requires close cooperation between Member States and the Commission and the latter must be in a position to monitor the extent to which the quota volume has been used up and to inform the Member States thereof;
Whereas if, at a given date in the quota period, a substantial quantity remains unused in any Member State, it is essential that that Member State should return a significant proportion to the reserve, to prevent a part of any tariff quota from remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others;
 Whereas, since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Nttheriantl* and ths Grand Dudiy of
Luxembourg are united in and represented by the Benelux Economic Union, any operation relating to the administration of the quota shares granted to that economic union may be carried out by any of its members,
From 1 January until 31 December lS80,the Common Customs Tariff duty in respect of men's and boys' outer garments, falling within heading No 61.01 of the Common Customs Tariff and originating in Cyprus, shall be entirely suspended within the limits of a Community tariff quota of 500 tonnes.
1. The tariff quota re/erred to in Article 1 shall be divided into two instalments.
2. A first instalment amounting to 230 tonnes shall be allocated among the Member States; the shares, which subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December 19 80 shall be as follows:
(tonnes) Bénélux 15 Denmark 15 Germany 35 France 25 Ireland 5 Italy 20 United Kingdom 115
1. If 90% or more of a Member State's initial share as specified in Article 2 (2), or 90% of that share minus the portion returned to the reserve where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, then to the extent permitted by the amount of the reserve, that Member State shall forthwith, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share equal to 15% of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
2. If, aiter its initial share has been used up, 90% or more of the second share drawn by a Member State has
been used hjS then that Member State shall, in accordance with the conditiun« laid down In paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7 5% of its initial share, rounded up where necessary to the next unit.
3. If, after its second share has been used up, 90% or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used up, that Member State shall, in accordance with the conditions laid down in paragraph 1, draw a fourth share equal to the third.
This process shall continue until the reserve is used up.
4. By way of derogation from paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, a Member State may draw shares smaller than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that they might not be used up . It shall inform the Commission of its reasons for applying' this paragraph.
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1980 •
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 October 19&0,such unused portion of their initial share as, on 15 September 19 80 js in excess of 20% of the initial volume. They may return a larger quantity if there are grounds for believing that it may not be used.
The Member States shall, not later than 1 October 1980 /lotify the Commission of the total quantities of the products in question imported up to 15 September 19 80 ind charged against the tariff quota, and of any quantity of the initial shares returned to the reserve.
The Commission shall keep an account of the shares opened by the Member States pursuant to Articles 2 and
3 and shall , as soon as it is notified , inform each Member State of the extent to which the reserve has
been used up as soon as it receives the notifications.
It shall inform the Member States, not later than 5 October 1980 , of the amount in the reserve after quantities have been returned thereto pursuant to Article 5.
The Commission shall ensure that any drawing which exhausts the reserve does not exceed the balance
The second instalment of 270 tonnes shall constitute
the reserve.
 available, and to this end, shall notify the amount of the balance to the Member State making the last drawing.
1 . The Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 are opened in such a way that imports may be charged without interruption against their accumulated share of the Community quota.
2. The Member States shall ensure that importers of the products in question established in their territory have free access to the share allocated to them.
3. The Member States shall charge imports of the products in question against their share as and when the goods are entered with customs authorities for home use.
4. The extent to which a Member State used up leg share shall be determined on the basis of the imports charged in accordance with paragraph 3.
At the request of the Commission, Member States shall inform it of imports actually charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall cooperate closely to ensure that this Regulation is complied with.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 19 80 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Done at Brussels,
For the Council The President
\ Irland V Italien
Frankrig Irland Italien
