■ Dänemark Irland ,
Irland •'*
1 . As a result of negotiations with Turkey on the adjustments to be made to the Association Agreement between that country and the Community and the Additional Protocol , to take account of new Member States , the Com­
munity signed in Ankara on 30 June 1973 a Supplementary Protocol which enter into force once it has been ratified.
In the meantime, the Community has concluded an Interim Agreement which in theory runs only for the period prior to the entry into force of this Supplementary Protocol in order to implement, from 1 January 1974, cer­ tain provisions of that Protocol relating to trade in goods .
At the moment it is not possible to know if the tariff measures laid down by these Agreements in Turkey's favour, should be given for 1980 on the basis of the Supplementary Protocol or the Interim Agreement.
. The provisions of the annexed Regulations are based on the Interim Agree­ ment and should thus be modified if the Supplementary Protocol enters
into force on 1 January 1980 at the latest.
- 2. In the abovementioned Supplementary Protocol and Interim Agreement, pro- ι
vision is made in particular in respect of textile products for the opening
of the following annual/Community tariff quotas, subject to the conditions
Other woven fabrics of cot­ ton
 They also determine for these products the allocation among the Member States of the annual tariff quotas for textile products. This allocation is as follows:
Community as originally constituted Denmark
Other woven fabrics of cotton (heading No 55.09) 11UI..-–-- ■■
Community as originally constituted Denmark
While article 14 of the Supplementary Protocol fixes such an allocation for a period ending at 1 july 1977 , the Interim Agreement fixes no limit to this special allocation, while could be due to the initially limited period of validity of the Interim Agreement applying in anticipated ap­ plication some of the provisions of the Supplementary Protocol .
The end of the transitional^ period fixed by the Act of Adhesion on 1 July 1977
has led the Commission to Vjpflect on the question of this allocation, which has resulted in the prop^gg!l to have a common system of administration of the
above tariff quotas involving, in each case, the opening of a single quota quantity divided between the Member States according to the usual criteria and the -creation of a single Community reserve open to all Member States .
Another problem arises in connection with the size of the quotas to opened for 1980, in view of the decision taken by the Association Council during June 1973 to grant Turkey treatment as favourable as that granted to countries benefiting from generalized tariff preferences.
As the decisions on the system to .be applied to the developing countries will not be taken until very late this year, the present Commission pro­ posal for 1980 takes account for the calculation of quota amounts for the generalized system of preferences of that which is generally admitted at present .
The imports into the Community of textile products coming from Turkey, in 1977, reached 122 930 tonnes corresponding to 25.08 % of the imports from all the beneficiaries of the G.S.P. With a G.N.P. per head of 901 dollars in 1976 Turkey obtained a score of 22 597, which would give, if it was a beneficiary under the" generalized preferences a right to benefit from duty exemption
from 2 % of its exports in 1977 . On this basis one would attribute for 1980 :
- for other cotton cloth
: 2 % of 51 247 tonnes i.e. 1 025 tonnes i 2 % of 2 437 tonnes i.e. 49 tonnes
: 2 % of 339 tonnes i.e. 7 tonnes
Taking account of the very negative political impact implied by a reduction, even partial, of the preferences in forces in 1979 for the above textile pro­ ducts, it is proposed to fix for 1980 quota volumes at the level reached in
1979 that is 1 077 tonnes for cotton yarn, 2 536 tonnes for other cotton cloth and 197 tonnes for carpets.
It goes without saying that/these volumes should be adjusted if the final
decision taken in the generalized system of preferences does not correspond to the présent system.
5. As regard the economic information to be used in determining the basis for the proposed allocation of the tariff quotas concerned, it should be remarked
that they should be based principally on Member States' imports , actual and estimated , specifically originating in or coming from Turkey for the categories "of pro­
_ Thus , although it has been possible to draw up the appropriate informa­ tion for the years 1976 to 1978, nevertheless because of the irregularity noted in imports during those reference years , it has not necessarily been possible to deduce any firm basis of assessment. For this reason, as it is customary, the quota volumes attributed to the original Community have been
 divided into two tranches, the first tranche being allocated among the Member States , and the second held as a reserve to cover any additional requirements which might come to light in those Memebr States . For the
same reasons the initial percentages allocated to the Memebr States used in the proposals are the same as in 1979.
The Proposal for a Regulation on textile products provides for a single method of counting imports against quota shares in the Member States con­ cerned, namely as and when they are entered for home use.
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof.
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas, pending the entry into force of the Supple­
mentary Protocol signed in Ankara on 30 June 1973
containing the adjustments to be made to the Agree­
ment establishing an Association between the Euro­
pean Economic Community and Turkey and to the
Additional Protocol ( ' ) consequent on the accession of
new Member States, the Community has undertaken,
in an Interim Agreement (:) which runs only for the
period prior to the entry into force of this Supplemen­
tary Protocol which is applicable until 31. December
1974 but which has been extended for igsd 11 accor­ dance with the terms laid down in Article 13 thereof,
to implement certain provisions ofthe Supplementary Protocol relating to trade in goods ; whereas, under Article 6 of this Interim Agreement amending Article I of Annex 2 to the Additional Protocol, the Commu-
. nity must reduce by 75 % the customs duties on imports from Turkey of certain textile products falling within heading Nos 55.05 and 55.09 of the Common Customs Tariff, within the limit of annual Commu­ nity tariff quotas of 390 tonnes for cotton yarn and 1 390 tonnes for woven fabrics of cotton, whereas the abovementioned Article 6 allocates theseKCommunity tariff quotas as follows : ;j
300 tonnes to the Community asJ^Sri^inally consti­ tuted, 40 tonnes to Denmark, 10 tofines to Ireland
and 40 tonnes to the United Kingdom ; – for woven fabrics of cotton :
1 000 toones to the Community as originally constituted, 20 tonnes to Denmark, 10 tonnes to Ireland and 360 tonnes to the United Kingdom ;
Whereas Article t4 of the said Supplementary Protocol only provides for such an allocation of tariff quotas between the Community as originally consti­ tuted and the three new Member States until 1 Jyly 1977 ; whereas, moreover, following the end of the transitional period laid down in Article 39 of the Act of Accession, it is necessary to create a common system of administration of the tariff quotas­
-- concerned, consisting in each case of the opening of a single quota divided between all the Member States
according to the usual criteria and the creation of a single Community reserve, open to all Member States.
Whereas it is desirable to provide for a provisions! adjustment of the tariff advantages for these goods
consisting of a total suspension of the customs duties of the Common Customs Tariff and an increase in the
quotas ; whereas the volumes of the quotas to be opened fori 980j}re therefore 1 077 tonnes for cotton yarn and 2 536 tonnes for other woven fabrics of cotton ;
Whereas pursuant to Article 1 of Annex 2 to the Addi­
tional Protocol together with Article 2 of the Interim
Agreement, for the duration of 1980in particular, the
Community must partially reduce the duties appli­
cable in respect of third countries to carpets, carpeting
and rugs, knotted (made up or not) of wool or of fine
and rugs) imported from Turkey; whereas it also
appears advisable to improve this tariff advantage pro­
visionally by means of a total suspension of the duties
applicable to the products in qustion within a
Community tariff quota fixed at a provisional level of 194 tonnes for 1980and allocated in accordance with
the same percentages as those adopted for 1 979 ;
Whereas, it is necessary to guarantee to all Cornr..u nity importers equai and uninterrupted access to the abovementioned quotas and uninterrupted application of the rate laid down for those quotas to all impof-? or the product concerned into all Member States Lr;i! the quota has been used up ; whereas in the lig^t of the principles mentioned above, the Commun.ty
nature of the quotas can best be respected by eating the Community tariff quotas amon ^ Member States ; whereas, in order to reflet mc„. rately the actual development of the market product concerned, such allocation shall be in pr- tion to the needs of the Member States, asse reference both to the statistics of each State's i . ; .
from Turkey over a representative period and to economic outlook for the quota period «concem^d : whereas, -in spite of the limited need for import!- Turkey of the products concerned, as shown b;. statistics for the majority of the Member Stale. • _ Community character of the tariff quotas cone should be safeguarded by making provisions to c. . needs which might arise in these Member Scats
Whereas imports into the various Member Staus tr . :: Turkey were as follows during the last three ye ;_>i which complete statistics are available : '
COUNCIL REGULATION (EEC) No /79 of
opening . lie caring and providing for the administration of Communi'y tariff quotas for certain textile products falling within heading Nos 55.05 and 55.09 and subheading ex 58.01 A of the Common Customs Tariff, coming from
Other woven fabrics of cotton Bénélux
Whereas in view of these figures and foreseeable
market trends for the products concerned during 1 980 , the initial shares may be fixed approximately at
to take this fact into account and avoid any break in continuity, it is important that any Member State having used up almost the whole of one of its initial quota shares should draw an additional quota share from the corresponding reserve ; whereas, this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional quota shares is almost entirely used up, and repeated as many times as each of the reserves allows ; whereas each of the initial and additional quota shares must be available for use until the end of the quota period ; whereas this method of administration calls for close cooperation between Member States and the Commission, which must, in particular, be able to observe the extent to which the quota amount is used and inform Member States thereof ;
Whereas, at a specified date in the quota period, a considerable balance remains in one or other Member
State it is essential that that Member State pays a percentage of it back into the corresponding reserve, in order to prevent a part of one or other of the Community quotas from remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others ;
Whereas since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are united within and jointly represented by the Benelux Economic Union, all transactions concerning the administration of shares granttd to the abovementioned economic union may bfe carried out by any one of its members,
the following percentages :
20-08 1-80 15-05 France 4-29 22-55 Ireland 0-92 7-50
Whereas in order to take into account the uncertainty of the import trends for the products concerned in the Member States, the quota volumes should be divided into two instalments, the first instalment being allo­ cated to the Member States, and' the second held as a reserve intended ultimately to cover the requirements of those Member States which have used up their initial shares ; whereas, in order to ensure* a certain degree of security to importers, the first instalment should be determined at a relatively high level, which, under present circumstances, may be about 80 % of each quota volume ;
Whereas the initial quota shares of the Member States may be used up at different times ; whereas, in order
Other woven fabrics of cotton
1. From 1 January to 31 December 1,98(^Commu­ nity tariff quotas shall be opened for the following products coming from Turkey, as shown below :
1. If 90 % or more of one of any Member State's initial shares, as laid down in Article 2 (1) or 90 % of that share less the amount returned into the corres­
ponding reserve, where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, that Member State shall without delay, by notifying the- Commission, draw a second share in the quota equal to 15% of its initial share, rounded up to the next unit where appropriate, to the extent that the amount in the reserve allows.
2. If, after one or other of its initial shares has been used up, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by
one of the Member States has been used up, that Member State shall, in the manner provided for in paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5 % of its initial share.
3. If, after one or other of its second shares has been used up, 90 % or more of the third share drawn by a Member State has been used up, the latter shall, in the same manner, draw a fourth share equal to the third .
This procedure shall be followed until the reserve has been exhausted.
4. Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may draw smaller shares than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that those shares might not be used up. They shall inform the Commission of their reasons for applying this paragraph .
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December 1980
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 Octoberl 980 , 'he unused portion of their
initial share which, on 15 September 1 980 , is in excess of 20 % of the initial amount. They may return a greater portion if there are grounds for believing that such portion may not be used in full.
Member States shall, not later than 1 October I960 , notify the Commission of the total imports of the products concerned effected under the Community quotas up to and including 15 Septemberl 980 , and, where appropriate the proportion of each of their
initial shares that they are returning to each of the reserves .
55.05 · ..ι. Cotton yarn, not put up for retail sale
Other woven fabrics of cotton
Carpets, carpeting and rugs (made up or not)
ex A. Of wool or of fine animal hair excluding handmade
carpets, carpeting and rugs
The duties of the- Common- Customs Tariff are
totally suspended for these tariff quotas.
1. A first instalment of each of the quotas referred to in Article 1, which shall be 832 tonnes for cotton yarn not put up for retail sale, 2 044 |tonnes for other woven fabrics of cotton and 159 tortnes for carpets, carpeting and rugs of wool or of fine /apimal hair, shall be shared among the Member?{ftgftes ; the shares which, subject to Article 5 shwjde valid until 31 December 1980, shall be as: follows :
2. The second instalment of each quota, amounting to 245, 492 and 35 tonnes respectively, shall make up the corresponding reserve.
The Commission shall k^cjj ac-ol.u of the shares
ope^ec* bv Member States in accordance with Articles 2 si J 3, and shall inform each of them of the extent u . v.i 'lie reserves have been used as soon as it re ives the notifications .
h .shall, not later than 5 October 1 980 ,notify the Member States of the state of each of the reserves after the return of shares pursuant to Article 5.
It shall ensure that any drawing which uses up a reserve is limited to the balance available and, for this
purpose, shall specify the amount thereof to the Member State which makes the final drawing.
1. Member States shall take all measures necessary
to ensure that, when additional shares art drawn
pursuant to Article 3, it is possible for imports to be counted without interruption against their accumu­ lated shares of the Community tariff quotas.
2. Member States shall ensure for importers of the
products concerned established in their territory free access to the shares allocated to them.
3. Member States shall charge : :.p, rts of the said goods against their shares as -: <; o . he . the goods are entered with customs authorities for r.ame use.
4. The extent to which the Member States' shares have been used up shall be established on the basis of imports counted in accordance with paragraph 3.
On receipt of a request from the Commission , Member States shall inform it of imports of the products concerned actually charged against their shares .
The Member States and the Commission shall coop­ erate closely in order to ensure that this Regulation is respected .
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1980 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
For the Council The President
fff t VX|
Protokoll am 1. Januar1980^-oder'später in Kraft tritt.
Irland * . 145 Italien 30 019
in ton . 18,40I 12.565
Denemarkefl 3 Duitsland . ( 25 000 Frankriik 2 389 Ierland 145 Italie
Frankriik 481 Ierland F
in ton in%I i
fin ton)
Proposal for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC )
opening/ allocating and providing for the administra­ tion of Community tariff quotas for certain textile products falling within heading Nos 55.05 and 55.09 and subheading ex 58.01 A of the Common Customs Tariff,
coming from Turkey ( 1980 )
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
1 . As a result of negotiations vith Turkey on the adjustments to be made to the Association Agreement between that country and the Community and the Additional Protocol , to take account of new Member States , the Com­
munity signed in Ankara on 30 June 1973 a Supplementary Protocol which enter into force once it has been ratified.
In the meantime, the Community has concluded an Interim Agreement which in theory runs only for the period prior to the entry into force of this Supplementary Protocol in order to implement, from 1 January 1974, cer- ^ tain pr-visions of that Protocol relating to trade in goods.
At the moment it is not possible to know if the tariff measures laid down by these Agreements in Turkey's favour, should be given for 1980 on the basis of the Supplementary Protocol or the Interim Agreement.
The provisions of the annexed Regulations are based on the Interim Agree­ ment and should thus be modified if the Supplementary Protocol enters
into force on 1 January 1980 at the latest.
2. In the abovementioned Supplementary Protocol and Interim Agreement, pro­ vision is made in particular in respect of textile products for the opening of the following annual Community tariff quotas , 'subject to the conditions laiddownforeachproduct : .
Other woven fabrics of cot-i ton 1
 They also determine for these products the allocation among the Member States of the annual tariff quotas for textile products. This allocation is as follows:
Community as originally constituted Denmark
Other woven fabrics of cotton (heading No 55.09)
Community as originally constituted Denmark
While article 14 of the Supplementary Protocol fixes such an allocation for a period ending at 1 july 1977 , the Interim Agreement fixes no limit to this special allocation, while could be due to the initially limited period of validity of the Interim Agreement applying in anticipated ap­ plication some of the provisions of the Supplementary Protocol .
. The end of the transitional period fixed by the Act of Adhesion on t July 1977 has led the Commission to reflect on the question of this allocation, which has resulted in the proposal to hav6 a common system of administration of the above tariff quotas involving, in each case, the opening of a single quota quantity divided between the Member States according to the usual criteria and the creation of a single Community reserve open to all Member States.
Another problem arises in connection with the size of the quotas to opened for 1980, in view of the decision taken by the Association Council during June 1973 to grant Turkey treatment as favourable as that granted to countries benefiting from generalized tariff preferences.
As the decisions oil the system to be applied to the developing countries will not be taken until very late this year, the present Commission pro­ posal for 1980 takes account for the calculation of quota amounts for the generalized system of preferences of that which is generally admitted at present .
The imports into the Community of textile products coming from Turkey, in 1977, reached 122 930 tonnes corresponding to 25.08 % of the imports from all the beneficiaries of the 6.S.P. With a G.N.P. per head of 901 dollars in 1976 Turkey obtained a score of 22 597, which would give, if it was a beneficiary under the generalized preferences a right to benefit from duty exemption
from 2 % of its exports in 1977. On this basis one would attribute for 1980 :
- for other cotton cloth
: 2%of51247tonnesi.e. 1 025tonnes : 2 % of 2 437 tonnes i.e. 49 tonnes
: 2 % of 339 tonnes i.e. 7 tonnes
Taking account of the very negative political impact implied by a reduction, even partial, of the preferences in forces in 1979 for the above textile pro­ ducts, it is proposed to fix for 1980 quota volumes at the level reached in
1979 that is 1 077 tonnes for cotton yarn, 2 536 tonnes for other cotton cloth and 197 tonnes for carpets.
Itgoeswithoutsayingthatthesevolumesshouldbeadjustedifthefinal . decision taken in the generalized system of preferences does not correspond to the present system.
5. As regard tho economic information to be used, in determining the basis for the proposed allocation of the tariff quotas concerned, it should be remarked
that they should be based principally on Member States* imports, actual and estimated, specifically originating in or coming from Turkey for the categories of pro­
Thus, although it has been possible to draw up the appropriate informa­ tion for the years 1976 to 1978, nevertheless because of the irregularity noted in imports during those reference years, it has not necessarily been possible to deduce any firm basis of assessment. For this reason, as it is customary, the quota volumes attributed to the original Community have been
 divided into two tranches, the first tranche being allocated among the Member States , and the second held as a reserve to cover any additional requirements which might come to light in those Memebr States . For the same reasons the initial percentages allocated to the Memebr States used
in the proposals are the same as in 1979.
6. The Proposal for a Regulation on textile products provides for a single method of counting imports against quota shares in the Member States con­ cerned, namely as and when they are entered for home use.
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas, pending the entry into force of the Supple­ mentary Protocol signed in Ankara on 30 June 1973 containing the adjustments to be made to the Agree­ ment establishing an Association between the Euro­ pean Econon. Community and Turkey and to the
fDcol ( ' ) consequent on the accession of States, the Community has undertaken, Agreement(2) which runs only for the
period prior o the entry into force of this Supplemen­
tary Protocol which is applicable until 31 December
1974 but which has been extended for jgggn. accor­
dance with the terms laid down in Article 13 thereof, to implement certain provisions ofthe Supplementary
Protocol relating to trade in goods ; whereas, under Article 6 of this Interim Agreement amending Article 1 of Annex 2 to the Additional Protocol, the Commu­ nity must reduce by 75 % the customs duties on imports from Turkey of certain textile products falling within heading Nos 55.05 and 55.09 of the Common Customs Tariff, within the limit of annual Commu­
nity tariff quotas of 390 tonnes for cotton yam and 1 390 tonnes for woven fabrics of cotton, whereas the abovementioned Article 6 allocates these Community tariff quotas as follows :
300 tonnes to the Community as originally consti­ tuted, 40 tonnes to Denmark, 10 tonnes to Ireland
and 40 tonnes to the United Kingdom ;
– for woven fabrics of cotton : '
. I 000 tonnes to the Community as originally constituted , 20 tonnes to Denmark , 10 tonnes to Ireland and - 360 tonnes to the United Kingdom ;
Whereas Article 14 of the said Supplementary Protocol only provides for such an allocation of tariff quotas between the Community as originally consti­ tuted and the three new Member States until I July 1977 ; whereas, moreover, following the end of the transitional period laid down in Article 39 of the Act of Accession, it is necessary to create a common system of administration of the tariff quotas concerned, consisting in each case of the opening of a single quota divided between all the Member States
opening, allocating and providing tor the administration of Community tariff quotas for certain textile products falling within heading Nos 55.05 and 55.09 and subheading ex 58.01 A of the Common Customs Tariff, coming from
according to the usual criteria and the creation of a single Community reserve, open to all Member States.
Whereas it is desirable to provide for a provisional adjustment of the tariff advantages for these goods
consisting of a total suspension of the customs duties of the Common Customs Tariff and an increase in the
quotas ; whereas the volumes of the quotas to be opened forl980j|re therefore 1 077 tonnes for cotton yarn and 2 536 tonnes for other woven fabrics of cotton ;
Whereas pursuant to Article 1 of Annex 2 to the Addi­ tional Protocol together with Article 2 of the Interim Agreement, for the duration of 1980in particular, the Community must partially reduce the duties appli­ cable in respect of third countries to carpets, carpeting and rugs, knotted (made up or not) of wool or of fine animal hair, (excluding hand-made carpets, carpeting and rugs) imported from Turkey; whereas it also appears advisable to improve this tariff advantage pro­ visionally by means of a total suspension of the duties applicable to the products in qustion within a Community tariff quota fixed at a provisional level of 194 tonnes for 1980and allocated in accordance with
the same percentages as those adopted for 1979 ;
Whereas, it is necessary to guarantee to all Commu­ nity importers equal and uninterrupted access to the abovementioned quotas and uninterrupted application of the rate laid down for those quotas to all imports of the product concerned into all Member States until the quota has been used up ; whereas in the light of the principles mentioned above, the Community nature of the qugtas can best be respected by allo­ cating the Community tariff quotas among the Member States ; whereas, in order to reflet most accu­ rately the actual development of the market in the product concerned, such allocation shall be in propor­ tion to the needs of the Member States, assessed by reference both to the statistics of each State's imports from Turkey over a representative period and to the economic outlook for the quota period concerned ;
whereas, in spite of the limited need for imports from Turkey of- the products concerned, as shown by the statistics for the majority of the Member States the Community character of the tariff quotas concerned should be safeguarded by making provisions to cover needs which might arise in these Member States.
Whereas imports into the various Member States from Turkey were as follows during the last three years for which complete statistics aire available :
Other woven, fabrics of cotton
Whereas m view of these figures and foreseeable
market trends for the products concerned during 1 980 , the initial shares may be fixed approximately at
to take this fact into account and avoid any break in continuity, it is important that any Member State having used up almost the whole of one of its initial quota shares should draw an additional quota share from the corresponding reserve ; whereas, this must be done by each Member State as and when each of its additional quota shares is almost entirely used up, and repeated as many times as each of the reserves allows ; whereas each of the initial and additional quota shares must be available for use until the end of the quota period ; whereas this method of administration calls for close cooperation between Member States and the Commission, which must, in particular, be able to observe the extent to which the quota amount is used and inform Member States thereof ;
Whereas, at a specified date in the quota period, a considerable balance remains in one or other Member
State it is essential that that Member State pays a percentage of it back into the corresponding reserve, in order to prevent a part of one or other of the Community quotas from remaining unused in one Member State when it could be used in others ;
Whereas since the Kingdom of Belgium, the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg are.united within and jointly represented by the Benelux Economic Union, all transactions concerning the administration of shares granted to the abovementioned economic union may be carried out by any one of its members,
the following percentages :
Other woven fabrics of cotton
Whereas in order to take into account the uncertainty of the import trends for the products concerned in the Member States, the quota volumes should be divided' into two instalments, the first instalment being allo­ cated to the Member States, and the second held as a reserve intended ultimately to cover the requirements of those Member States which have used up their initial shares ; whereas, in order to ensure a certain degree of security to importers, the first instalment should be determined at a relatively high level, which, under present circumstances, may be about 80 % of each quota volume ;
Whereas the initial quota shares of the Member States may be1 used up at different times ; whereas, in order
I. From 1 January to 31 December 1.98 (^Commu­ nity tariff quotas shall be opened for the following products coming from Turkey, as shown below :
1. If 90% or more of one of any Member States initial shares, as laid down in Article 2 (1) or 90 % of that share less the amount returned into the corres­
ponding reserve, where Article 5 has been applied, has been used up, that Member State shall without delay, by notifying the Commission, draw a second share in the quota equal to 1 5 % of its initial share, rounded up to the next unit where appropriate, to the extent that the amount in the reserve allows.
2. If, after one or other of its initial shares has been used up, 90 % or more of the second share drawn by
one of the Member States has been used up, that
Member State shall, in the manner provided for in
paragraph 1, draw a third share equal to 7-5 % of its initial share.
3. If, after one or other of its second shares has
been used up, 90 % or more of the third share drawn
by a Member State has been used up, the latter shall,
in the same manner, draw a fourth share equal to the third .
This procedure shall be followed until the reserve has been exhausted.
4. Notwithstanding paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, Member States may draw smaller shares than those fixed in those paragraphs if there is reason to believe that those shares might not be used up. They shall inform the Commission of their reasons for applying this paragraph .
Each of the additional shares drawn pursuant to Article 3 shall be valid until 31 December j ago
The Member States shall return to the reserve, not later than 1 Octoberl 980 , 'he unused portion of their
initial share which, on 15 September 1 980 , is in excess of 20 % of the initial amount. They may return a greater portion if there are grounds for believing that such portion may not be used in full.
Member States shall , not later than 1 October 1980 , notify the Commission of the total imports of the products concerned effected under the Community quotas up to and including 15 Septemberl980,and, where appropriate the proportion of each of their initial shares that they are returning to each of the reserves.
totally suspended, for these tariff quotas.
1. A first instalment of each of the quotas referred to in Article 1, which shall be 832 tonnes for cotton yam not put up for retail sale, 2 044 tonnes for other woven fabrics of cotton and 159 tonnes for carpets, carpeting and rugs of wool or of fine animal hair, shall be shared among the Member States ; the shares which, subject to Article 5 shall be valid until 31 December 1980, shall be as follows :
Other woven fabrics of cotton
C' pets, carpeting and rugs (made u or not)
f A. Of wool or of fine animal hair excluding handmade
carpets, carpeting and rugs
The duties of the Common Customs Tariff are
2. The second instalment of each quota, amounting to 245, 492 and 35 tonnes respectively, shall make up the corresponding reserve.
The Commission shall keep account of the shares opened by Member States in accordance with Articles
2 and 3, and shall inform each of them of the extent to which the reserves have been used as soon as it receives the notifications.
It shall, not later than 5 October 1980,notify the Member States of the state of each of the reserves after
the return of shares pursuant to Article 5.
It shall ensure that any drawing which uses up a reserve is limited to the balance available and, for this purpose , shall specify the amount thereof to the Member State which makes the final drawing.
1. Member States shall take all measures necessary to ensure that, when additional shares are drawn pursuant to Article 3, it is possible for imports to be counted without interruption against their accumu­ lated shares of the Community tariff quotas.
2. Member States shall ensure for importers of the
products concerned established in. their territory free access to the shares allocated to them.
3. Member States shall charge imports of the said goods against their shares as and when the goods are entered with customs authorities for home use.
4. The extent to which the Member States' shares have been used up shall be established on the basis of imports counted in accordance with paragraph 3.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Member States shall inform it of imports of the
products concerned actually, charged against their shares.
The Member States and the Commission shall coop­ erate closely in order to ensure that this Regulation is respected .
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 January 1980.
of a
request from the
For the Council The President
af\bemuld , Ikko
Danmark Tyskland Frankng
Irland Italien
4,29 Irland 2,27 Italien 23,99
Tyskland 298 Frankrig 36 Irland 19 italien 200
