The proposed Regulation is intended to increase at the request of the Faroese authorities the part of the Norway pout quota allocated to the Faroe Islands which can be taken within the
area covered by ICES Subdivision Via north of 56°30* N from 6.000 to 11.000 tons, the overall quota remaining unchanged at 22.500 tons .
•This adjustment will in no way prejudice the conservation of marine resources in the Community fisheries zone.
The Commission believes that the Community should give a positive reply to the Faroese request, taking account of the provisions
of the fisheries agreement signed by the Community and the
Faroe Islands according to which the Community shall facilitate the full use of quotas allocated to Faroese vessels.
PROPOSALPORCOÜNCILREGULATION(EEC)NO /79 of 1979
providing for a technical adjustment to Regulation (EEC) No 1178/79 laying down for 1979 certain interim measures for the conservation and management of fishery resources applicable to vessels registered
in the Faroe Islands
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in* particular Article 103 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas in accordance with Council Regulation (EEC) No 1178/79 of
12 June 1979 laying down for 1979 certain interim measures for the conservation and management of fishery resources applicable to vessels
1x2 registered in the Faroe Islands , as amended by Regulation (EEC) No ,
the Community has allocated a quota for Norway pout to vessels registered in the Faroe Islands, of which not more than 6 000 tonnes may be fished in ICES Division Via north of $6°30' N;
Whereas the Faroese authorities have requested that this 6 000 tonnes limit should be increased;
Whereas in accordance with the provisions of the Fisheries Agreement signed between the Community and the Faroe Islands the Community should enable the quotas allocated to Faroese vessels to be fully exploited;
Whereas increasing the proportion of the quota allocated to the Faroe Islands which may be fished in Division Via is not likely to endanger the conservation
of fishing resources in the Community fishing zone;
Whereas compliance with this Faroese request
necessitates an amendment to Annex I to
Whereas these measures should "be taken without delay and it is therefore necessary to adopt them on an interim basis pursuant to Article 103 of
the Treaty subject to their later inclusion in the common agricultural policyt
Annex I to Regulation (EEC) No 1178/79 is replaced "by the Annex to this Regulation.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply until 31 December 1979.
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States-
Por the Council President
Blue whiting Greenland halibut
Other white fish (by-catches only)
(•) Limitedmthewe»?byalinedrawnfromthehjhthouaeofHanwholmtothelighthouseofLindesnesandindiesoothby•linedrawi from Skifm LIF^ choui* to the lighthouse of Tistlarna MID fiom there to the nrircit COM of Sweden.
(*) Of which no more than 1 000 tonne* may be fohed HI die fwn of ICES tub-area IV situated either south of 40* N or eatf of 2* l> (*) Northof60°Nandwcitof2*E.
(•) North of 56' 30' N. ( (%Thi*quotamaybeeiccrdedbyamaximumof2500maprovidedthat*etotalcattfcwofNorwaypooc,saftdecta*dapraidoM
<•> of vMch no more than U.000 tonnes in ICES division Via north of 56°30' N. I (*) ItmWdwmcdiaiIn*miicudiofM*N. 1
(presented by the Commission to the Council)
The proposed Regulation is intended to increase at the request of the Faroese authorities the part of the Norway pout quota allocated to the Faroe Islands which can be taken within the
area covered by ICES Subdivision Via north of 56°30' N from 6.000 to 11.000 tons, the overall quota remaining unchanged at 22.500 tons .
This adjustment will in no way prejudice the conservation 'of marine resources in the Community fisheries zone.
The Commission believes that the Community should give a positive reply to the Faroese request, taking account of the provisions
of the fisheries agreement signed by the Community and the
Faroe Islands according to which the Community shall facilitate the full use of quotas allocated to Faroese vessels.
providing for a technical adjustment to Regulation (EEC) No 1178/79 laying down for 1979 certain interim measures for the conservation ancL management of fishery resources applicable to vessels registered
in the Faroe Islands j1•1
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economio Community, \•
and in particular Article" 103 thereof,
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas under Council Regulation (EEC) No 1178/79 / as amended by Regulation (EEC
the Community has allocated a quota for Norway pout to vessels registered in the Faroe Islands, of which not more than 6 000 tonnes may be fished in ICES Division Via north of 56°30' N;
Whereas the Faroese authorities have requested that this quantity should be increased; .
Whereas,.pursuanttotheprovisionsof. theFisheriesAgreementsigned between the Community and the Faroe Islands/ the Community should enable the quotas allocated to Faroese vessels to be fully exploited;
Whereas increasing the proportion of the quota allocated to the Faroe Islands
which may be fished in Division Via is not likely to endanger the conservation of fishing resources in the Community fishing zone;
Whereas compliance with this raroese request
recessi'sates an amendment to Annex I to
Whereas these measures should be taken without delay, and whereas it is therefore necessary to adopt them on an interim "basis pursuant to Article 103 of
the Treaty, subject to their being included at a Later date in the common
Annex I to Regulation (EEC) No 1178/79 shall be replaced by the .Annex to this Regulation.
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities .
It shall apply until 31 December 1979*
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States.
Done at Brussels. 1979 For the Council Président
Blue whiting Greenland halibut
Other white fish (by-catches only)
i O of the median line and couth of W N. (•) Wnt of I2# W.
H Ejm of (he median kite.
Arcs within which nthing ie authoetMd
(') Limited .n rhe ww hr a line drawn frrmi the hghrhouae of Hantrholm to the ligSfhrnjie of L»ndr«ne» and in the »outh by a line drawn fr<wn Ski^rn lighthouie to the lightKouK of Tutljrnj and from there to the ne^rm coait of Sweden.
(*) Of which no moff thin 1 000 tonne* may be hshed in the t am of SCtS tub-area (V utuated cither touth of W N or ea«t of 2* L
H Sxwih of 56* 10' N.
(%, Thi\ QUO*4 may he exceeded by a maximum of 2 500 tsmnta provided th« the total catches of Nomray pout, aandetl and tprat do not e*^<*d 52 ^00 tonne*.
oOf which.no more than 1} 000 tonnes in ICES Diyision Via north of 56°30'
