In accordance with the Council decision of 9 October 1979» on the R&D programme "Reference Materials and Methods and Applied Metrology"
the services of the Commission have examined the problems to which
this programme is faced as a result of the cancellation of the activities "non nuclear ME1RE" of the JRC in its new programme.
It was concluded that these problems were temporary and could "be solvedf and that therefore the programme can still go on without reviewing its technical content or the allocated funds.
Subject : Re-examination of the R&D programme "Reference Materials and Methods and Applied Metrology"
The Council decision (9 October 1979) adopting the programme "Reference Materials and Methods (BCR) and Applied Metrology",., stipulates that this programme should be reviewed after the
new JRC programme is adopted. Such re-examination was considered necessary by some delegations at the Council in order to analyse
the consequences of the termination of the non-nuclear METRE activities of the JRC on the indirect action "Reference Materials and Methods".
In its previous programmes the JRC has been responsible for a substantial amount of activity closely associated with the in­ direct action and has provided considerable support for it. This activity is not included in the new programme of the JRC, which nevertheless will provide a yearly support of 7 man-years.
This change will produce some temporary difficulties in the organisation of the work and management of the programme because it is now necessary to entrust to experts the tasks hitherto under­ taken by scientific officers of the JRC.
An examination of the situation (with the ACPM) led to the conclusion that the programme as defined by decision of the Council could nevertheless be carried out successfully.
It is therefore proposed that the Commission :
- adopt the Communication to the Council; - forward it to the Council.
The progranme reference materials and methods (BCR) and Applied Metrology which was proposed to be an extension of the previous programme as of 1st January 1979 was approved by the Council on
9 th October 1979 (O.J. n. 25$, 13/10/79)• The funds corresponding to the year 1979 °f the programme were released on 7th December of that year.
In its article 4, the decision of the Counoil states, that the programme was subject, within six months after approval of the new programme . of the JRC , to a re-examination which could result in a revision, in order to take due account of the content of the new programme of the JRC.
Description of the previous situation
The BCR progranme was first established in 1973* It was and it remained coupled to a similar programme carried out in the JRC and called non-nuclear METRE programme. This part of the METRE, programme had a staff of 70*
The BCR programme consists in establishing reference materials (standards) of chemical substances or of materials with defined
physical properties. The implementation of each project requires the collaboration of several laboratories . In m^ny cases , the
JRC was also a participating laboratory but in addition, it had the role of pilot laboratory. The laboratories of the JRC were carrying out preliminary studies useful for the initiation of new projects, insured the preparation of samples, their distribution, were in charge of scientific and technical guidance, the preparation of minutes of meetings, the statistical treatment of data, the establishment of reports giving the synthesis of the results (certification reports).
The council, upon proposal of the Commission, decided to terminate the non-nuclear part of the METRE programme to concentrate the JRC effort on large projects .more specific to the Community role of the JRC .
 The new programme provides nevertheless a scientifio support to theindirectactionBCR. Thisistocoverscientifioguidancei research in laboratories for developing methods or carrying out some analyses, evaluation of results and, in the earlier stages, assistance in the statistical treatment of data*
The consequencesfor the indirect action "Reference materials and Methods" are the following:
Thepreparationofsampleswillbenowgiventolaboratories in-themembercountriesexceptinveryspeoialoases*. The Joint Research Centre has developed special expertise in the preparationofsometypesofsamples. Itwillmakeit availablewhennecessaryduringthewholeprogramme* The support will be limited to the role of advisor and most of the actual work will be given to outside laboratories or firms except in special cases where some preliminary developmentsbasedonexistingknowhowareneeded* Thecost of outside work will of course be borne by the indirect action programme*
Thepreparationoftheminutesofmeetingswillbemadeby the personnel of the indirect action or by experts attending the meetings*
Thescientific'guidanceoftheprojectswill-betakenover by personnel of the indirect action with the help of external experts (and in some cases with the experts of the JRC availablethroughthe"SupporttoBCR")* Theestablishment of synthesis reports will be progressively given to experts taking part in the projects or to independent experts*
The statistical treatment of the data is a very important task astheultimateresultshouldbecertified* Itisalsoimportant thatthemethodologyshouldbeuniformforallprojects. Itis necessary for the indirect action to have at its disposal a singleandexperiencedpersonforthatpurpose. JCRwill provide in the earlier stages the same support as before and
is prepared to ensure the smooth transfer of this responsibility to an expert of DO XII *
The contacts which were taken demonstrate that this task could
bedonebynationallaboratories, CRISThadinfactinsisted that existing infrastructures should be used.
The termination of the non-nuolear METRE program® has no effect on the "Applied Metrology" part of the indirect action*
As far as the part "reference materials and methods" is concerned? the termination of the non-nuclear METRE programme has of course consequences on the implementation of the BCR programme, in so far as its management is concerned. Certain tasks assumed up to now
by the CCR and its staff will in the future have to be performed by the BCR personnel or by outside laboratories and experts* This may, in certain cases, inorease the cost of an individual project and consequently affect the total number of projects which can be implemented under the present programme*
But this consequence will in no case be such that any one of the fields listed in the annex to the Council decision of 9th October 1979 would have to be dropped*
Consequently there is, in the Commission's opinion, no need to amend the said Council decision*
The ACPM shares the conclusion drawn by the Comnission in its communication to the Counoil on the^exafbinatlon ^ -. ir
of the consequences of the termination of the non-nuclear METRE programme which has been implemented by the Joint Research Centre up to 1980.
In particular, the "Applied Metrology** partiof the programme cannot be affected, since this activity had never been covered by a direct; action programme of the Community.
On the other hand, the Committee has noted a considerable number of consequencesfortheBCRpartoftheprogramme* Theseareduetothe fact, that the staff of JRC METRE programme in the past had been closely co-operating with the BCR for the benefit of both the direct and indirect action in this field, and permanently performed a certain number of functions with respect to certain projeots such
as providing research activities undertaken in the JRC laboratories at ISPRA, GEEL and PETTEN (for example preparation of samples), scientific expertise on the occasion of. the establishment of synthesis and certification reports,', taking care of storage and distribution of samples and making available secretaries for working groups. •
These functions must now be taken over by:
the staff of the indirect action programne
(which has been slightly increased to this effect).
outside experts (which will increase costs of individual projects)'
the specific but very limited support still foreseen by the JRC under its new programme of 13th March 1980 (7 men/year).
These consequences will lay an additional burden on the staff and financialresourcesavailableundertheprogramme. TheCommittee has therefore once againv-expressed regrets about the termination of the non-nuclear MEHRE programme and stressed the necessity that the results Already obtained be exploited in future activities of
BCRandJRCprogrammes. Ontheotherhand,theCommitteefoundthat these consequences did not necessitate a change in global scope of the programme.
All projects as indicated in the programme decision of the Council should inprinciplebepursued. If,inthelightofthefactsstatedabove,it should appear necessary, in the course of the implementation of the programme, to establish priorities or to restrict activities in certain fields the Committee would, as usual, advise the Gonmission accordingly.
This communication has no new financial implication*
