* Forecasting and Assessment in the field of Science and Technology ; FAST _
(1) Forecasting and Assessment in the field of Science and Technology : FAST
FAST;*>&fforecasting^ftdiAss&jjSffienGitWctbe teedofscienceandtechnology.
 is .
hat bestimmte
(A) Forecasting oi'i! * "cssment in the field of Science and Technology FAST
 Land -
* FAST : Forecasting and Assessment in- the field of. Science and Technology. '
(Communication from the Commission to the Council)
Proposals for the 1980s
The challenge
Towards -a common R&D strategy
- Community activity up to now
- The value of the Community's experience - The need for an overall approach
Guiding principles and the objectives of a common strategy
- Getting the best out of the Community's experience
- Exploiting the benefits conferred by the Community dimension
Defining the common R&D strategy and getting it off the ground - The basic theme: a general framework programme
- Community actions and instruments - Increasing the scope of activities
Structures and procedures
- Assessing, adopting and carrying out the common strategy r - Consultation .at the scientific level
- Consultation at the'level of those responsible for national R&D policy and with government experts
- Consultation with the social partners Finance
 The chai Lenge
The Commission,, as it has already emphasized in its. response .to the 30th May Mandate, has shown its willingness to confront the challenges of the 1980s. <
It is clear that due recognition must be given to the part which scientific research and technological development can play in any strategy for regeneration, arising from its capacity to anticipate the long term and because of the inescapable links between growth - technological innovation and social change .
 2 . Towards a common R&D strategy Community activity up to now
2.1 . The Member States of the Community have long recognised the importance " and value of joint action in science and technology . The Council there­
fore approved Community involvement in the whole field on 14 January 1974 ( 1 ) , and the Commission was given the task not only of progressively coordinating national policies but also of undertaking R&D programmes itself where there was a Community interest.
2.2. On the basis of this, after the phase of developing various specialized research activities under the auspices of EURATOM and the ECSC, the Commission has progressively defined and carried out a series of research ' programmes. In adopting this pragmatic approach to what it has devised,
put forward and carried out - the Commission has treated each proposal on I
its merits. The overriding consideration was that each should contribute to the establishment of the various appropriate Community sectoral policies (particularly energy, raw materials and the environment). -
2.3. It is in this way that, since 1974, the Commission has been able to create a sophisticated mechanism for evolving R$D activities,and for carrying out , evaluating and exploiting them . Its use of this mechanism has given rise to an extra dimension of European scientific and technical cooperation in many sectors. Community R&D is clearly here to stay : t several thousand researchers from all the countries in the Community
are working together now and for the forseeable future in pursuance of Community objectives in 'the major sectoral programmes .
(1) except for areas covered by military or industrial secrecy.
2.4. The budget devoted to these R&D activities has grown steadily from
70 Mio ECU in 1974 to more than 300 Mio ECU in 1980. The finances are distributed as follows :
Priority areas % of the total R&D budget
1 . Energy 72.0 2. Raw materials 2.3 3. Environment 8.4
6. Other
2.5. Although it might appear that Community R&D spending has built up rapidly it should be said that it is still relatively feeble compared to what Member States spend on their own programmes (about 1.5 %), to what Member States devote to international cooperation (about 16 %) and to the general budget of the Community (about 1 .8 %) .
2.6 . The value of the Community 's experience .
y< Given that both . the , avai lab ,le resources and the areas covered have been
limited, it is remarkable that most of the work undertaken has led to significant results. In some cases Community work has had a world wide impact .
2.7. Taking energy as an example, the work done in the field of new and renewable sources served as a stimulus and catalyst for national efforts. This was especially true of solar energy where the work laid the foun­ dation for cooperation between industrial companies and for fruitful collaboration between European laboratories. This provided Member States with the chance to acquire a scientific and technical' capabi lity in
the field more quickly than if they had been limited to isolated or dispersed initiatives . . -
- 2.8 .* The same combination of catalysis and promotion can be seen at work ,
in the environment sector, where Community R&D activities In support
of selected priorities,such as the examination of the effects of pollutants like lead in petrol, have been a direct stimulus to national efforts in
the field. They have also led to coordination which now applies, directly or indirectly to 20% of the research undertaker) in Member States.
In the case of raw materials it was the national experts themselves
who proposed a major extension of Community involvement^ ranging from i metals and minerals ( locating seams, methods of extraction and treatment ) to recycled materials such as paper and board.
Again, with steel, the^Community can take the credit for many measures which have reduced production costs and improved product quality.
2.9. Fusion is another case in point. It is a fine example of the benefits
of joint working for long term benefits ; in JET the Community will have | a facility which will keep it on a par with the United States, the Soviet I
Union or Japan. * !
Community Reference Bureau (SCR) emphasizes the need to undertake specific
actions (such as on reference -materials and techniques) and to provide. a
" public service for laboratories and European industfy so" far as norms and
standards are concerned . . 1
Programmes dealing with nuclear fission, such as reactor safety,. the
management and storage of radioactive waste products, control of fissile
in-ite rials and radioprotect ion , make up a joint response to problems which "■'.'mber States have in common. The quality and scope of the programmes together with the availability of major experimental installations means the Community
well placed for international cooperation. This has been underlined by treaties signed with the IAEA, the United States and Canada.
2.10. Other programmes have proved their worth in spite of their restricted scope. The first medical research programme demonstrated-the effectiveness of joint action focused on. subjects such as the extracorporeal oxygenation of blood, and cellular ageing . The agricultural research programme , in its turn , has had considerable success in the field of animal health and soil fertility .
..'\/ 2.11 . The recognition earned by the Central Bureau for Nuclear Measurements a'nd the
2.12. Community activities of a more general character which should be mentioned include - actions to do with information and with scientific and technical
' documentation , particularly in the context of the EURONET/ DIANE network ( 1 );
- the training of researchers and measures to promote their job mobility (which applies particularly in the context of the fusion programme).
As a final point one should note . -
- cooperation with European non-Member States in the framework of COST.
( 1 ) Community telecommunications network specially'designed for the diffusion of scientific and technical information (it gives more than 2000 users direct access to 120 data bases and data banks).
2.13. Although the Levels of quality and effectiveness which Community research has attained up to the present are widely recognised/ factors such as Europe's falling behind its main competitors, the scale of the problems to
be faced and the urgent need to make the best use of its financial resources compel the Community to set its sights considerably higher. •
The need for an overall approach
2.14. It is the experience which past achievements have brought to the Commission
which gives- it both the right and the justification to suggest a new stage
in the progress of European R&D. It must be said that the pragmatic approach, which has, up to now, been a matter of undertaking successive research
programmes in separate sectors, has not been particularly helpful in enabling the Community to make the best use of the whole range of its resources
( financial , fiscal , regulatory , support for innovation ) with a view to achieving specific socio-economic objectives . In particular the approach . has made it difficult to articulate certain actions and integrate them into an overall strategy. Whatever the value and effectiveness of the programmes
and the coordination which the Community has carried out. to date in the
field of science and technology it would seem that they are no Longer ,
adequate to make a suff ic ient Response to the challenges which confront ...
the Community or to rally national efforts in the light of that response.
2 . 15 . Better than any amount of theorising , a table brings out the fact that Europe's deficiencies in this field are not due to any lack of manpower or resources . •
Country Total gross Public Total R&D . Total R&D Scientists Population
spending on spending spending R&D on R&D as X of
and Engineers
(1) Comparison based on data collected by the statistical working group of CREST, and the scientific services of OECD and UNESCO.
2.16. If Member States, despite the importance and worth of the scientific effort they can muster, seem frequently poorly prepared to respond in isolation to the scientific needs which have arisen or are about to surface through the changes in European society this is mainly due to the fact that their potential for R&D and for technological innovation is weakened by the following factors: - the slowness of public research -particularly in the universities-* to
adapt its structures to changing circumstances ;
- Member States are each trying to tackle too many of the same topics -
this leads to dissipation of effort; <
- there isn't a favourable climate for pursuing research bearing simultaneously
on several sectors of activity or for the exploitation of the results of
both fundamental and applied research ;
- lack of sufficiently close relations between public research and industry.
These factors reduce the effectiveness of the European research system and mean that, often, the response offered by science %o the demand (whether
from industry , government or society at large ) is inadequate . At the same time there are clear gaps in the research continuum, where some activities are considered to be too much like applied research by the universities and too much like fundamental research by industry. The validity of this A diagnosis is confirmed by the need felt by some large industrial companies
to get their tjasic research carried out in institutions outside Europe. *•.<
2.17. These circumstances call for the setting out of an overall stragegy, the general conception and guidelines to be agreed between all parties, which would constitute the framework in which the objectives arfd priorities for Community research and development activity could be established in clear continuity with actions already undertaken.
Working closely with Member States the Commission intends to set out the identifying features of this next stage in the light of two guiding principles:
- getting the best out of Community activities while ensuring that they are integrated into an overall strategy ,
- exploiting to the full the benefits conferred by the European dimension, >•
Getting the best out of the Community 's experience
The Commission expects to be able to develop its action along the lines laid out in its report on the 30th May Mandate, aiming particularly at new
possibilities of growth and an improvement in the employment situation . This will * mean building on the evaluation work which has already been done in connection with common R&D activities and upon the results of the FAST* programme in order
- consolidate and strengthen some of the existing programmes ; - select guiding themes for choosing R&D actions to pursue in the longer term ;
3, Guiding principles and the objectives ef a common strategy
3.1.1 . Adapting ongoing or forthcoming activities
«I Over and above its scientific value, joint R&D activity must be seen in terms of j
what it can contribute to the Community's overall strategy, and the way it can ^ underwrite various Community activities.
Seen in this light a number of new priorities and orientations could be applied > at" once to ongoing or forthcoming programmes .
- In the energy sector it would be possible to strengthen the research i
connected with economising on energy or to do with alternative
fuels. This could be achieved in such a way as to ensure more coherence between Community scientific activity in this field and the Community's policy objectives (management of resources , energy , employmeht ).
FAST : Forecasting and Assessment in the field of Science and Technology
Agricultural research should, as a matter of priority/be encouraged to make a contribution to alleviating the problems experienced by the Common Agricultural policy. On the one hand it should help to relieve
- At the same time the links between environmental research , energy research ( e.g. coal ) and agricultural research ( e.g. agricultural waste ) would be reinforced .
- Activities aimed at supporting certain traditional industries which are now in difficulties would be extended so as to be of real help in making the changes which are necessary and to give a fillip to their competitiveness (e.g. steel, textiles and clothing).
- steps would be taken to encourage the greatest practicable exploitation
of the bases of modern biology and the development within Europe of applica­
tions where the US and Japan have gained a lead (taming genes and what they can produce) .
- In an attempt to improve Europe's competitiveness in the medium and long
term more will have to be done in the realm of new technologies for infor­ mation handling „ communi cations and automation . To this end the Commission will suggest the rapid implementation of- an R&D programme firmly aimed at
the long term, with the object of increasing Europe's capacity to produce-
micro-processors and opto-electronic equipment designed>to transmit, handle /
and process information .
- An improvement in the Commission 's capacity to analyse and evaluate likely
developments in the future would be made so that priorities for the
Community can be assessed in a consistent way. For this reason it is *
suggested that a regular and systematic review of the strengths and weak­
nesses of the Community's scientific and technical potential be undertaken by a structure for "perception and evaluation". ' s
Priority themes for an even more significant R&D action >
The effectiveness of Community action is bound up with the extent to which it is formulated in terms of jointly agreed general objectives.
some of the shortages which Europe suffers (oil, proteins, wood, tobacco) and at the same time contribute to reducing the surpluses. On the other hand it ought to open up new markets for certain food products or even energy sources. Lastly it should lead to the identification of new production techniques which are less costly in terms of input and less damaging to the environment .
This renewed research effort in agricultural research should preferably
be directed towards those .areas which have benefitted the least to date from technological innovation. Top of the list of these is the Mediterranean region which needs a real technological renaissance. The development of agricultural research is also consistent with the desire of the Commission to make the best possible use of the resources already available to.it before seeking any more .
Industries of strategic importance which are undergoing drastic changes , such as the chemical and motor vehicle industries.
It is most important that these sectors continue to be generators of wealth, foreign currency and employment for Europe. To this end it is important
that Community research programmes be undertaken with the object of coordinating efforts already made and increasing their effectiveness, especially where they correspond to wishes expressed by the industries themselves.
The Community, in the spirit of the Lom£ Convention and in -the framework of cooperation agreements made with Mediterranean countries, could make a much greater contribution with its science and its technological potential to the pressing problems (nutrition , energy, health ) of a large number of Southern hemisphere countries. As well as actions such as remote sensing, wide ranging programmes are needed from this point of view (agricultural research, research
into nutrition and renewable sources of energy).
Through this research programme, the principal objective must be the devel­ opment of the national and regional capacities of the associated countries
in the field of scientific research .
In this context, the Commission intends to give deeper thought to a more general issue : -
; Mastering the relationship between technological progress and social change -
The move towards a new world energy order, the battle against inflation
and unemployment, the problems of coming to terms with modernisation and
change, call for just as much innovation in the social sphere as in the
technological . It is clearly necessary to be much more aware both of
the pre-conditions and the likely societal impacts before , for example ,
introducing robots into factories, electronic office technology into
administrative organizations, computers into schools and information
technology into the home. It is plainly not enough simply to develop the
technology; one must be careful to pave the way for its acceptance. \.ι
3.2 Exploiting the benefits conferred by the Community dimension
Whilst it might well be said that the Membe> States can no longer afford to spend enough to achieve their ambitions , it , is equally true that the Community
to which they belong needs to develop ambitions to match the resources it could deploy.
The Community is both a large scale organizational framework and a market in which European R&D activities as a whole can be put to the most effective possible uses .
3.2.1 . Research and development call for a scale of investment in the medium to long term which is often substantial . In a period of budgetary constraints and high rates of interest, one is entitled to ask how it is possible to bring about thenecessary conditions of stability and continuity. The Community
must be given the means to achieve this aim through binding undertakings made by the Council . The Community is uniquely well placed to take the lead in joint activities carried out at the least cost for each participating Member
. State (e.g. nuclear safety, new energy sources, the environment), or to promote activities of a scope which one Member State on its own could scarcely
 contemplate e.g. thermonuclear fusion. The Commission should also make it
its business to do all that is necessary to make sure the Community's overall scientific and technical capacities do not run the risk of suffering from
The Community must see that preparations are made for actions in the long *
term, and ensure that they are properly integrated with what is being done i in the medium term ( e.g. new technologies of information , biotechnology ,
as well as their long term consequences for Community policies).
3.2.2 . The Community should becorne the forum for a regular review process which
would enable Member States to hammer out the preferred options, and to
choose the approach ( i.e. national , international or Community) most suitable for implementing scientific' and technical actions of joint concern and which contribute to Community solidarity. In order to ensure a satisfactory outcome to this discussion the Commission will obviously have to provide an evaluation
of Community level actions, as part of furnishing the necessary assurahces that funds are being well spent, that the quality of scientific work is high . and that , the objectives which have been set are being fulfilled .
3.2.3. Even if, from time to time, Community action costs more that it might have
done had it been, carried out exclusively at a national level, it is clearly *
almost always far more fruitful in terms of scientific results and socio­ economic impact. By setting out research actions in the context of an overall strategy, the Community can ensure their continuity from the economic point of view ( the market ), the industrial point of view ( innovation ) or the regulatory point of view ( financial incentives , standards , competition ). This is how
the best can be made of R&D action at the earliest stage.
3.2.4. Finally, alongside the work that needs to be done on behalf of developing countries the Community ought to play a greater part in international cooperation, both in respect of the major trading partners (such as the US and Japan) and
international organizations such as ESA, EMBO and the ESF.(1)
The Community, because of its size, has considerable negotiating strength. »
It ought to make more use of this vis a vis major third countries. (The case of Fusion is a good case in point, where a sharing out of work and risk between Member States and various other countries has been possible).
European Space Agency, European Molecular Biology Organization, European Science Foundation
So far as international scientific and technical organizations are concerned, the Community could not only play a partirt the development of their work but also support or promote actions which would make theirs more complete in terms of interest to the Community. Thus in the case of the ESA, the Commission considers that the activities of this Agency need to be reinforced on the basis of an objective examination and analysis which the Community could make .
A. Defining the common R&D strategy and getting it , off the ground ' 4.1 . The basic theme - A general framework programme
What the Commission intends to develop is an overall framework programme embracing all Community research, setting out against the options put forward for the Community as whole, those actions and initiatives which are already being undertaken on the basis of the three treaties and those which are likely to be carried out in the future. Building upon th'is basis the Member States and the Community Institutions will be able to:
- discuss national policies and bring them together * ( making the necessary
choices between national , international and Community level action );
- re-arrange priorities to take account of changes irj the medium 6nd the
- decide what joi nt actions and initiatives should be selected .
The framework programme will need to be regularly revised and readjusted to take account of observed changes. In this way the Community will have at its disposal exactly the sort of concertation mechanism which has been missing up to now, amounting almost literally to a control panel for Community R&D.
This will give an overview making it much easier to plan activity in a
dynamic and responsive as opposed to a rigid and inflexible way.
The existence of the mechanism will make it possible to take account of the necessarily varied time sp .ins of R&D programmes - something which is inevitable
given their specialized nature . . Some, for example Thermonuclear Fusion , need
a much longer programme than others do . And some of the " service " type
activities (notably scientific and technical information and documentation, and the Community Reference Bureau) are by definition almost permanent.
* After all it is not worth trying to bring policies together if the context in which they are going to unfold has not been clarified in advance.
At the same time mtersectoral programming guidelines, spelling out the main priorities, could more easily be put to those responsible for individual R&D programmes. They in turn could thus make sure that the necessary adjustments were made in their activities.
New projects which proved to be necessary coul.d be more convincingly justified and above all more effective if they were more closely linked to the Community 's overall objectives in tftis way .
The implementation of a common R&D strategy calls for the optimum use of the Community 's scientific and technical instruments . To this end it will be necessary to:
- give preference to the development of scientific and technical activities
which are both of interest to and to the ultimate benefit of the Community, in national centres where they are being undertaken now or where they could
be undertaken , which is to say give assistance to laboratories , whether public, semi-public or private, where work is being carried out which is x of interest to the Community. N
- give a boost to those centres of collective research . Which would be capable of developing programmes of interest to the Community. The sort
of intervention proposed would be intended to strengthen, widen and coordinate national activities .
In thus seeking to optimise the scientific and technical potential of the Community, the adoption and regular review of clearly stated strategic priorities, based on recognised mutual interest, would make it possible to give an initial boost or lend support to certain actions where only a few Member States take an active part, with a beneficial effect for all. At the same time particular attention should be paid to the actions and instruments of the Community itself.
Community actions and instruments
When talking about consolidating the Community's accumulated experience it
is not intended to imply that current actions will simply carry on as before. New "centres of gravity" will have to be considered. Again, the Commission
 will see whether some of the work which is being done might not be drastically revised or even abandoned altogether. The internal coherence between programmes will be closely studied from time to t ime with a view to tightening up existing linkages as often as it proves to be necessary, particularly those with other Community actions..
The Joint Research Centre is already being examined with a view to a programme adjustment of this kind. Without wishing to prejudge the outcome of this review one might venture to map out some of the major future lines of action for the JRC viz :
- to concentrate the work now being done on nuclear fission questions (which now predominate) on the priority areas concerning the acceptability of this form of energy - for example the handling and storage of radioactive waste, the safety of reactors and the control of fissite materials,
- to develop short and medium term scientific and technical support activities as a back up to the system for formulating and implementing priority ~ Community policies, and to involve .the JRC much more closely with the management of all the various types of research action-and pilot projects, for example the study of how hot houses could make better use of solar energy for heating and ventilation, '
- to establish a long term research activity where the CCR will be preeminent,
for example in the field of fusion technology,
- make the ISPRA-establishment freely available for scientific and technical
activities of benefit to developing countries, either for training purposes ( courses , trainee posts , etc .) or , for developing research projects biassed towards their particular needs (e.g. remote sensing from the air, new forms of energy ) and in which they could play a part ,
- improve the links between the JRC and the national research environment - in particular industry - by giving preferential treatment to research contracts placed by outside bodies. As a first stage at least the idea would be to include some form" of financial incentive, such as charging only the direct costs of the research , the overheads being met by the JRC . *
Increasing the scope of activities - ' - >
The policy of individual programmes which has been followed up to now - comparable in many ways to the basic policies followed by national technical ministries - is circumscribed by its own limits. In order to be sure that
creative potential , or the potential for exploiting research results ,
which they embody . The pool of scientific and technical'' knowledge - _..ι
subsists in them and can only be renewed by them. So it would be a good
thing for the Community to put its weight behind research exchanges and
schemes to enhance team mobility, and to give a Ipoost to those "advanced"
teams within the Community specialising in various aspects of research from
the most fundamental to industrial innovation. It would also be necessary
to do something about halting the decline of scientific publications in
Europe. It is more and more the case that reviews of other countries are
the medium for European results . This cannot be healthy for European scientificresearch.». '
the Community 's potential is fully realised, the Commi ssion , feels that this way of working must be made stronger and more well rounded by introducing a strategy geared to stimulating the efficacy of European Science and to developing specific major projects of particular interest to the Community. /
- Stimulating the efficacy of science
All efforts to promote R&D must depend on people, on teams, and on the
- Developing scientific and technical projects •"
To keep abreast of the tide of worldwide scientific innovation it is «
necessary to be able to formulate and implement specific projects in a manner which is genuinely flexible and speedy , projects which :
. respond to changes in world competition ( e.g. space )
. serve to demonstrate technical feasibility and economic viability
. holdout the prospect of part icular sc lent i f ic or technological
benefits by virtue of likely spin off effects (e.g. labelling micro­ organisms to safeguard industrial property rights in the field of genetic engineering)
The implementation of this sort of 'policy of stimulation and of projects "
would make it possible to make better judgements of opportunities and of
which multi-annual actions to pursue , judgements which would "be based on
tangible experiments . ' Such actions would , as appropriate , be integrated r.I ''''
into the general framework programme. The policy would equally well make it possible to carry out those projects of major interest which arise from
More generally, the necessary corollary to the implementation of a .•1■'»»
common R&D strategy of this kind will be ' .
- the strengthening and systematisation of the way in which Community . R&D results are evaluated
- the development of a policy aimed at making the most of these results, diffusing and exploiting them .
The Commission feels that it would be desirable for the Council of Ministers (Research) to meet on a regular basis, at least twice a year, in order to
guide choices and make the necessary decisions. Consultation at the scientific level .
With a view to benefitting from the help it could receive in the preparation
of its proposals and making sure that the necessary but complicated linkages , are established the Commission intends to: '
- equip itself with a mechanism capable of perceiving and judging the scientific and technical needs of the Community.. As a first stage it
• could be built up around CERD (the European Research and Development V~^
Committee) the scope of whose terms of reference would be expanded, and by making use of the existing FAST team, which would be strengthened and made more permanent.
time to time out of work done as part of the multi-annual programmes
but which, by virtue of their cost or the way they would have to be implemented cannot be considered in that context .
Efforts joining together activities related to programmes on the one hand and to stimulation on the other would guarantee coherence between the various Community initiatives, and would be the manifestation of a permanent willingness to adapt programmes in the light of changing scientific and socio-economic circumstances . • '
Structures and procedures
Assessing , adopting and carrying
out the common strategy
- to arrange that it can call for ad hoc advice from a team of scientific and industrial advisers of high quality and world standing, giving the Commission the benefit of direct advice from the best experts from all countries of the Community .
5.3. Consultation at the level of those responsible for national R&D policy and with government experts
Without wishing to throw open the whole basis of the present consultative machinery for debate, it would be advisable to make the most of it, seeking
above all to shorten the time it takes to prepare proposals. The Commission intends to make recommendations to the Council and to take immediate action
of a practical nature in areas where it is itself responsible, in order to improve the operational qualities of the system.
The European Scientific and Technical Research Committee (CREST), the main consultative body for the Commission and the Council for R&D matters, plays
a particularly important part in the Community 's decision . making processes . The Commission therefore considers it extremely desirable that the governments of the Member States mandate their representatives on the Committee to take
a position on all aspects of items placed before them, particularly on the
financial resources needed for Community R&D programmes. *
The Committee's role in the process of coordinating national policies will
similarly have to be spelt out in the context of the proposed strategy, as well as that of those consultative committees involved in the management of programmes . •
Consultation with the social partners
The Commission intends to review and restate in a clearer fashion the methods t . and the work programmes of the various committees - in which the -ccial partners '
take part - which have the task of advising it ( CORDI ( 1 ) for example ).
It is also intended to improve its links with the Economic and. Social Committee and in a more general way to make its contacts with the industrial and union worlds more systematic. The fact is that the information available from industry and the unions is still inadequate so far as research and development at the Community level is concerned.
( 1 ) Advisory Committee on Industrial ^ search and Development
The common RSD strategy which is needed in the years to come implies
an increase in the financial resources required to effect it, It is
the Commission's intention over the next few years to seek this increase "■ both in the framework of Community budget resources which are already available (particularly by making more use of existing funds) and by
asking the Council for additional resources . ~
Because it is so difficult to ^appreciate and define the new needs which
are likely to surface in the coming years, it is difficult, and in many ; -
cases highly Hsky , to set down precisely . what budgetary provision is
going to be needed. Nevertheless a preliminary estimate has been made of
what would be required to correspond to a development of an R&D strategy
as set out in this document; this estimate does not take into account decisions which mighi give the Community responsibility for the development of major new programmes such as ,is already the case for "Fusion". From this
exercise it would appear that from now until 1986 one is talking in terms
of a doubling, irr real terms, of the amount of money from the Community
budget devoted to Research and Development. This sum, although in absolute
terms not insubstantial, still constitutes only a relatively insignificant
sum by comparison with the total of the public RSD budgets of the Member States and with the total budget of the Communities.. ,
 a European scale with a special degree of excellence,
- make it easier to set priorities,
Facing profound changes in society and in the economy, the European Community must remain the nucleus around which national policies are brought together. •> • i
The risk is real of not preparing adequately for change and, because of this, of not having available instruments sufficiently capable of having
an influence on the future and of reaping the social and economic benefits of scientific discoveries.
The autonomy of Europe, the demands of our society, the needs of the economy and industry as well as the aspirations of the scientific community all call for a true Community R&D strategy.
Such a strategy presupposes the establishment of objectives for the medium as well as for the long term, and then the selection of the means to realise them*
At a time of budgetary constraint, the Community dimension must be us6d in order to : .1
- provide extra guarantees of effectiveness and of continuity,
- allow for the realisation or the stimulation of actions or programmes on
improve the mobility of research' workers and to speed up the diffusion )
anc( assimilation of knowledge. 4
The strategy proposed implies a Community-wide desire to obtain Commu- nity-wide results. It also facilitates the better integration of national,
international and Community action, to the ultimate benefit of the Commu­ nity . " '
The successes of the past, the deficiencies of the prese/it and the demands of the future are thus the main elements which justify the ambitiousness of
'the programme which the Commission now proposes to the Community.
- assure a continuous and more widely based scientific evaluation of the
results obtained and the choices made,
- associate the scientific community with action undertaken in order to
l) FAST: Forecasting and Assessment in the field af Science and Technology . •
(1) Forecasting and Assessment in the field of Science and Technology : FAST
