Bruxelles, $0TM Septembe SECRET
Bruxelles, tëOth Septembe SECRET
 Communication from Mr. Dalsager to the Commission MANDATE 0F 30 MAY 1980 : AGRICULTURE
At its meeting on 16 September 1981 the Commission decided that it would adopt a document cn agriculture at its meeting on 21 - 23 October for transmission to the Council; and that there would be a first orientation debate on agriculture at the Commission 's meeting on 30 September .
Work is continuing in my services on the preparation of the document for
the Council, taking account of the principles set out in the Commission's Mandate report of 24 June 1981. In the meantime, the attached note serves
as an interim report, and a basis for the first orientations of the Conmission.
In its report on the Mandate (C0M(81)300 of 24 June 1981) the Commission recommended that future decisions on the common agricultural policy should be based on certain guidelines , including :
- a price policy based on the narrowing of the gap between Community prices and those applied by its main competitors;
- modulation of guarantees in line with Community production targets; - mutual coherence between the commercial and agricultural policies.
The Commission will submit a Memorandum to the Council in the second half of October, with a more detailed analysis and indications of the Commission's
guidelines for prices, production objectives, producer participation ^nd trade. The present communication gives a first analysis, and submits certain Choices for the Commission .
Results achieved by the common agricultural policy
Since its inception, the common agricultural policy' has achieved a considerable degree of success in attaining the objectives set out in Article 39 of. the
EEC Treaty . In a time of general economic difficulty , it has protected producers' incomes . It has succeeded in increasing agricultural productivity , stabilising markets, and assuring the availability of supplies to consumers
One indication of this success is the .increase in the Community's degree of self-sufficiency for many of the principal agricultural products.
 However, this success has beelh accompanied by its own problems. Because of the continued growth' of ag H cultural production , with a less rapid
growth of food consumption within the Community, there have been increased difficulties of market management and a growing reliance on export markets, often with the aid of restitutions paid frorh the Community budget. In the period 1974 - 79, expenditure from the FEOGA Guarantee Section increased at' an annual average rate of about 27%.
The Cotnmunity has therefore been obliged in recent years to follow a m6re prudent policy for agricultural prices, and to develop instruments for the participation by producers in the cost of disposing of additional production. At the same time, the Commission in its management of the markets, both as regards domestic markets and external trade/ has placed renewed emphasis
on vigorous and timely action to expand outlets . In particular , it his
pursued an active export policy which has permitted the Community's agricultural exports to increase more than twice as Rapidly as its imports.
These measures of market management are now clearly beginning to bear Iruit . According to the most recent estimatesd ), expenditure from the Guarantee Section of FEOGA in the period 1980-82 will increase by an annual average
of only about 9%, less, rapidly than the Community's resources Which ar<( expected in increase by about 12% during the same period. The picture is most striking in the milk sector , - for which expenditure from the Guarantee Section will actually decrease from 4,752 million ECU in 1980 to 3,675 million ECU in 1981; in this sector we have succeeded in raising the level of prices on the world market, liquidating a large part of our stocks, and expanding our exports, while at the same time saving more than 1,000 million ECU for the budget .
Prospects for the Future
A preliminary analysis of forecasts of Community production and consumption of the main agricultural products for the coming years shows that, in many cases, production will continue to increase more rapidly than Community consumption if there is no change in present measures ahd price structures .
( 1 ) taking account of the rectifying budget no . 2 for 1981 and the latest forecast for the 1982 budget .
On the other hand , commercial demand for the Community 's exports will continue to grow in several different regions of the world (developing countries , oil-producing countries , Eastern Europe and the USSR ) and
these demands must be satisfied, together with the increased effort whiqh the Community should make in the field of food aid. At the same time, some imbalances in the Community 's import arrangements could be remedied .
Taking account of these factors, the Commission should therefore decide on appropriate production objectives for each main product and formulate the price policy and other measures suitable for achieving them. Since any new measures adopted for the coming 1982/83 season would not have their full feffect on production until 1983 or later, it would be appropriate to take the year 1988 as the limit of a 5 - year horizon.
This approach will permit more rational long-term decisions on the agricultural
policy to two
to be taken by the Community institutions. But it must be subdrdinate fundamental considerations :
any changes must respect the basta principles of the agricultural policy, and permit the Community to honour its obligation under Article 39 of the EEC Treaty to ensure a fair standard of living for
• the agricultural Community; no adaptations which fail to respect these , conditions could be politically viable;
- there can be no question of imposing an artificial limit on agricultural production, or of determining the level of production from year to
year at the farm or national level by administhati ve dictate ;
what are envisaged are targets or thresholds of production,, beyond
which the Community's guarantee would be reduced or adjusted in an appropriate way.
Comparison with world markets and third countries
The Community is not alone in maintaining a system of agricultural support and guarantees of markets and incomes for its farming population. Alhost without exception, other countries have agricultural support systems of various kinds, and in countries of a level of economic development similar
to that of the Community, the support price Level is frequently higher*
than ours. For example, although the producer price for milk in New Zealand is 55% lower than in the Community and in Australia 15% lower, in the USA it is 15% higher, in Canada 18% higher and in Switzerland 55% higher.
Meanwhile the cost of agricultural support to public finances in the USA
is of the same proportion as in the Community (1% to 1.5% of GDP) and ill Japan it is much higher (almost 5%).
The price level on world markets, on the other hand, is notoriously volatile because the quantities involved in international trade are often marginal
in relation to total production, and may reflect short-term fluctuations in ' production ( eg . sugar , dairy products ). For several products ( eg . beef , wine ) there is really no world market and prices vary according to the destination
of exports. Although the Community has pursued its efforts to stabilise world markets for agricultural products, much more effective international cooperation would be needed before one could use world prices as a valid reference point.
The significance of world market prices for the Community's agricultural policy is nevertheless considerable, since they influence the level of our export restitutions and therefore our budgetary costs . In many cases , the export market will in future be the only outlet for additional production exceeding the Community 's production targets , and such production will therefore realise no more than the world price. This realisation price
could therefore be taken into account, in certain cases, in measures for the financial participation of producers - as is already the case, for example, in our system of quotas for sugar.
Orientations for products
In the Annex is an interim report on the work of analysis, which is still in progress in the services, on the principal agricultural products. The results of this work will.be submitted to the Commission in final form, with more precise conclusions and orientations, in the context of the draft memorandum for transmi ssion to the Council in the second half of October .
Interim report of the product-by-product analysis.
9 . Fruit and
Production of cereals in the Community irl 1979 was 135 flhillion tonnes, With imports of 18 million tonnes and exports (in all forms) of 17 rtiillion tbnnes.
the most important cereals produced were wheat (45 million tonnes) barley (40 milliorl tonnes) and maize (18 million tonnes).
Since a large part of cereals is used for animal production in the Community, an analysis of the market situation must take into account the demand from the animal sector and the utilisation of cereals substituted. In 1980 the
demand for animal feedingstuf f s in the Community was equivalent
to 282 million UF (1 Unite fourraqere equals 1 t onne of cereals ) which was covered by 73 million tonfies Of cereals (including 13 million tonnes imported) and 14 million UF of imported cereal substitutes (manioc, brans, corn, gluten feed, etc.) Imparts of these substitutes have grown rapidly in recent years because of the Community's loU level of external protection, which gives them an advantage of price compared with Community cereals.
It is estimated that, on present trends, the demand for animal feedingstuffs by 1 1988 would reach 298 millioh UF; of* if . action is taken to control the increases in milk and beef production, 291 million UF, In the absence Of any change in
import conditions and relative prices, the whole of this, additional demand,
would be covered by imported substitutes. Any increase in Community cereal production would therefore have to be exported at a cost to the Community budget.
In formulating its production objectives for cereals, the Commission must make ■r■
a choice between :
- allowing unrestricted increase irl the imports of cereals substitutes; ' stabilising the imports of substitutes at about the present level; reducing the imports of substitutes .
The other element for which a choice must be made is the future price level of Community cereals. Several factors argue in favour of a progressive, reduction of the price in relative terms: /
Cereals have a central role in the Community 's agricultural economy ; a relative declihe in cereals prices would meah lower costs o^
production for beef, milk, pigs, poultry, eggs, and would therefore permit prices in these sectors to be supported at relatively lower
levels this in turn would make our animal production more competitive-*
with that of third countries .
Our cereals production is relatively efficient: although the average area of our farms is smaller, they have an average yield higher than in the U.S.A. , Canada or Australia , thanks to an intensive use of inputs .
Although there are fluctuations in the world market price of cereals; there exists a valid point of reference in the support prices accorded to cereals producers in the U.S.A., which in a recent period were about 20% lower than in the Community .
From the point of view of agricultural incomes, a relative reduction
, in cereal prices would affect smaller cereal producers proportionally
less than the larger producers, because the larger farms specialise in cereals production while the smaller farms tend to have a mixed farming system with other types of production, such as animalis.
The advantage enjoyed by imported cereals substitutes is essentially an advantage of price . It has been estimated that , if the price differential was reduced by 20 ECU/ tonne , the substitutes would^
already begin to lose their economic interest for ar>imal feed. A \
reduction in the relative price of cereals would therefore be the logical way to solve the problem of substitutes.
For these reasons, it would be in the Community's interest to embark on a programme of progressive reduction of cereals prices in relative terms.. To avoid unacceptable consequences for production and incomes, such a
programme must be gradual : one could not envisage a reduction in nominal terms. It would be a question of progressively reducing the gap between our internal prices and those in the U.S.A. over a preiod of years up to 1988.
It must be emphasised also that Community preference in the cereals sector would be retained, since there would still be the difference between the price at which supplies from third countries could enter the Community
( threshold price ) and our intervention price .
Against this background, production objectives should be fixed for Community cereals; separately for wheat and for feed grains, and mechanisms should be
introduced for the participation of producers if the objective is exceeded.
A choice must be made between the application of a coresponsibi lity levy or th adjustment of intervention prices:
CoresponsibiIity levy. Such a system would be very difficult to administer in the majority of member states, where there is no obligatory point of control for sales of cereals from farms; and it could not be applied to the large quantity of cereals consumed on farms. In economic terms, it would be less efficient than direct action on prices.
Adjustment of intervention price. In its 1981/82 price package the Commission proposed that, if Community production of the principal cereals, exceeded certain basic quantities by 1%, the intervention pricesshouldbereducedby1%. From'boththeeconomic,andadmi­
nistrative point of view, this has the advantage of simplicity. On the "basis of this proposal , the Council has already agreed in principle' that coresponsiMlity should apply in 1982/83*
For these reasons, it would be preferaols to pursue our earlier proposal,
modified in an appropriate way, for producer participation by means of
an adjustment in intervention prices. It must be emphasised that these measures would come into action only if there was an excessive increase in Community production; they would be a comolement to the suggested price policy. , „.
Interim action on cereals substitutes
In the long term, a programme of progressive reduction in cereals prices in relative terms will eliminate the competitive advantage presently enjoyed by cereals substitutes. But in the short and medium term, wh'ile the advantage remains, difficulties may persist on the Community's cereals market . For this reason the Community should open discussions with the principal third country suppliers of cereals substitutes for " the introduction of arrangements to ensure that the volume Of imports does not exceed current levels. These discussions should cover all the principal substitute^ (and, if necessary, new substitutes) so as to ensure coherence and avoid displacement of demand from one product to another.
The Community already has in the sugar sector a well-developed series of measures, by means of the A, B and C quotas, for setting production targets and ensuring producer participation.
In its 1981 / 82 price decision *, the Council, adapted and renewed the qudta system for a future period of 5 years. In fact, the market organisation now provides for an integral coresponsibility of producers in the senso that they must bear the full cost Of exporting surplus sugar, other than the equivalent of the 1.3 million tons imported from ACP countries.
It would not be appropriate at this stage td propose modifications in these arrangements . , .
However, the Council must review the quotas before 1 January 1984 in the light of the situation on world markets, and that will be the occasion
to consider any necessary changes. In particular the Community must take account Of developments in the production of other sweeteners, such as isoglucose and other new products, which may begin to occupy an increasing share of markets in third countries to the detriment of sugar produced from beet and cane .
Deliveries of milk to Community dairies in 1980 were 97 million tonnes> and off-farm consumption of milk and milk products was 85 million tonnes. Exports of milk products were equivalent to 16 million tonnes, and imports equivalent to 2 million tonnes. (The reason why the total of consumption plus exports
was gfeater than the total of deliveries plus imports is that stocks were reduced during the year).
Deliveries to dairies increased at an annual average of 2.6% in the period 1973-80, but in 1981 the increase has decelerated and is expected to be only 0.5% - 1.0%. Total consumption of milk in its different forms within the Community - including subsidised uses in the animal sector (milk powdeb)
and for human consumption (butter) - can be expected to grow at an average of about 0.5% in the coming years.
The Community's exports of milk products have increased rapidly: between 1975 and 1979 our share of the world market for buttei" increased from 16% to 62%, for skimmed milk powder from 32% to 61%, and lor cheese from 34% to 41%. Since 1979 we have had further success in expanding exports, while
at the same time bringing prices on the world market to a more remunerative level through cooperation with other exporters. There are prospects for a further increase in export demand in future, though as the leading supplier on the world market we must exercise prudence so as to maintain good prices.
As regards imports, the principal question is the future arrangements for New Zealand butter. These imports have been fixed for* 1981 and 1982 !at the
level of 94 and 92 thousand tonnes respectively, and the Council has yst to take a decision on the quantity for 1983 and the arrangements after 1933. Since the consumption of butter in the United Kingdom continues -to decline, ■the resulting adjustment should "be borne not only by Community producers but also by New Zealand.
Taking account of these factors, it would be reasonable to have 3s our objective of productioh that deliveries to dairies should not exceed an annual average increase of 0.5%, which is the expected rate of increase of internal demand .
Existing coresponsibi t ity levy . There exists a levy at the basic
rate of 1.5% on all milk delivered (with exemptions for mountain zones/ Mezzogiorno and Greece ) but for 'the 1981 / 82 season it has been increased to 2.5% (with a reduced rate of 2.0% for the first 60,000 kg. delivered in less-favoured zones). Although criticisms have been made of this linear levy - for example, it has been argued that a lower increase in
the common price woul^l be simpler than a levy - it has the merit of having been accepted politically, and it yields a significant revenue for FE0GA. The Commission could therefore seek to continue it at the rate of 2.5A,
Franchise for small producers . If so , the question must be posed whether to introduce a more general franchise, in order to assist the incomes of all small producers: for example, one could exempt from
the levy the first 40,000 kg of all deliveries (equal to the average yield of 10 cows). This would exempt more than half of the Community's milk producers, but only about 17% of the total milk deliveries. Such a measure would have a similar effect to that Of a direct incorhfe aid to small producers but without the administrative difficulties inherent in any system of direct aids.
Supplementary levy . N In order to discourag e ex cessive increasses in
production, a dissuasive l^vy should be applied to additional milk deliveries. Only an additional levy of this type, rather than a linear
levy , can be really effective in controlling excessive production . But the following choices have to be made:
Method of calculation. Should the rate of levy be calculated according to the marginal cost of disposal (normally the export restitution) so that the cost of additional production is completely covered without additional cost to the Community budget?
As regards the measures to implement this objective, a number of choices have to be made:
 Method of application. Should the levy be atiplied sintoly at the level of the dairies , leaving them to decide how to pass it onto individual producers, as the Commission has siggested in its earlier proposals for a supplementary levy ? Or should it "be applied at the level of the individual farms , with the dairies acting as out administrative agents ? The former approach has met with strong opposition within the Council , but the latter would also entail serious difficulties of administration and equity (problem of calculating reference quantities for each fa:rm, problem of young farmers wishing to enter milk production, consolidation of existing structures of milk production to the advantage of those) producers who have already attained a higher degree of efficiency.)
Progressive rate.. Should the levy apply at uniform rate of yffc
on all additional milk, as the Commission has suggested in its earlier proposals , or at a progressive rate more favourable to small producers .
A progressive element could be introduced , for example t by applying a rate of yfc on the first 10,000 kg of additional milk, a rate of X/£ on the next 10,000 kg, and so on.
Special levy for intensive t^roduction. Should there be a further element of dissuasion for additional milk delivered by farms with an animal density of more than 3 cows per forage hectare ?
Production of beef in the Community in 1980 was 7.2 million tonnes, either from specialised beef herds! of* more often from herds producing milk. Exports were 640,000 tonnes and imports 343,000 tonnes.
Production has increased at ah annual average rate of 2.4% in the 1970s, while consumption per head has grown at an average rate of only 1.7%. For ^he coming years it is estimated that production may increase by 1.5 - 2.0%, while consumption which is strongly influenced by growth in incomes may increase
at about 0.7%. In the absence of adjustments in our policy in this sector, it is clear that there may be a growing imbalance between supply and demand.
As regards external trade, certain adjustments could be envisaged in the import arrangements so as to ensure a more effective
application of Community preference .. On the export market , the Community has had considerable success in expanding its share of world exports from 10% to 25%, but this is due in part to reduction in exports by other suppliers which have been affected by cyclical factors; since demand for beef is geared to economic
growth, the prospects for expanding our beef exports at more remunerative prices are not good. The Community is therefore likely to remain a net exporter
of beef at about the same level as at present .
The Community's objective should be to discourage any increase in the gap between beef production and consumption: in other words, action should be taken
to ensure that the average production increase does not^exceed the consumption increase .
This will require a prudent price policy, since there is a risk that further price increases will deflect consumption to other meats, as well as
increasing the budgetary cost of our exports.
Producers should be confronted with the realities of the market, through
further adjustment of the intervention system (limitation, suspension Of intervention during certain periods). The existing premium measures Should be
reviewed, so that they do not constitute an incitation to additional production for which there is no market .
The Community's regime for these products includes Only limited measures for support of market prices (export restitutions, and private storage for pigmeat). Past experience has shown that the market organisation is self-regulating in the sense that prices operate to bring supply ard demand into balance in the medium term, while action in the fields of trade and storage rrwy be necessary to counter short-term fluctuations.
It would not therefore be appropriate to introduce production objectives or new measures of coresponsibi I ity in these sectors .
A relative reduction in the price of cereals would have an important
effect in reducing costs for ourproducers and making them mohe competitive on the world market : we are already highly efficient in these sectors
of production by world standards , and our exports o ^ poultry ,* for
example, have already increased from aboifc 200,000 tonnes in 1977-79 to about 300,000 tonnes in 1980. There are prospects for increasing our exports in all these sectors if we pursue a reasonable management of our restitutions.
Production of wine in the Community fluctuates greatly according to the season:
the average production in the period 1970/71 to 1979/80 was 153 million hectolitres with a trend increase of about 1,16%. Consumption (in the sense of direct
human consumption, distillation without aids etc) has been steadily decreasing
at $n annual average rate of 0.59% in the period 1970 - 80. The balance
between production and consumption has been made by distillation with Community aid^ which accounted for an average of 7 million hectolitres in 1970 - 80.
Imports in 1970 - 80 averaged about 5 million hectolitres and are fairly
stable. Exports have increased from about 3 million hectolitres in 1970 to
8 million hectolitres in 1979/81 (including 2 million hectolitres which benefited
from export Restitutions); but export markets are limited by the fact that most importing countries qre also producers of wine.
The Community has already taken a series of measures to stabilise production by limiting the area under vines, but at this stage it is difficult to give a prepise estimate of futi^re production in the 1980s. The Commission has taker) action and made recommendations to reduce the level of taxation on wine in
the Northern countries, ar)d if these desirable changes are made, there would be increases in consumptiqn in the Member States concerned which would help tp offset the decline in consumption in Italy and France.
The Community's objective should be to avoid any increase in the gap between the trends of production and consumption .
As far as production is concerned, measures have already been taken to limit the area under vines, and indeed the wine sector is the only one where a discipline of this kind is imposed on producers under the common agricultural policy . It is essential that these measures should be applied effectively . The structural measures for grubbing-up vineyards must also be pursued.
Distillation measures shoglcj also be improved, to ensure a more stable market and to discoyrage the production of high^yield low-quality wine.
There must be a reinforcement of coritrpL in the areas of production, both to prevent frauds and to ensgre better quality for the consumer. Measures for this purpose have recently been submitted for approval of the Commission .
As regards consumption/ the member states concerned should reduce taxation of wine. Consideration should also be given t0 Community
encouragement for promotion of wine, both on the internal market and on the export market .
The analysis of measures necessary in this
sector is particularly complicated "because of the diversity of products concerned.
Examination is continuing within the services .
 Communication from Mr. Dalsager to the Commission MANDATE 0F 30 MAY 1980 : AGRICULTURE
At its meeting on 16 September 1981 the Commission decided that it would adopt a document cn agriculture at its meeting on 21 - 23 October for transmission to the Council; and that there would be a first orientat'ion debate on agriculture at the Commission 's meeting on 30 September .
Work is continuing in my services on the preparation of the document for
the Council , taking account of the principles set out in the Commi ssioh ' s Mandate report of 24 June 1981. In the meantime, the attached note !>erves
as an interim report, and a basis for the first orientations of the Conmission.
In its report ori the Mandate (COM(81)300 Of 24 June 1981) the Commission recommended that future decisions on the common agricultural policy should be based on certain guidelines , including !
- a price policy based or1 the narrowing of the gap 'between Community prices and those applied by its main competitors;
- modulation of guarantees in .line with Community production targets; - mutual coherence between the commercial and agricultural policies.
The Commission will submit a memorandum to the Council in the second h&lf of October, with a more, detai led analysis and indications of the Commission 's
Results achieved by the common agricultural policy
Since its inception, the commbn agricultural policy has achieved a cortuiderabl degree of success in attaining the objectives set out in Article 39 of the
EEC Treaty. In a time of general economic difficulty, it has protected producers' incomes. It has succeeded in increasing agricultural productivity stabilising markets, and assuring the availability of supplies to consumers
One indication of this success is the increase in the Community's degree of self-sufficiency for many of the principal agricultural products.
pric-es , production objectives , producer participation and trade
The present communication gives a first analysis, and Submits certain Choices for the Commission . ,
 However, this success has beeh accompanied by it.s own problems. Because of the continued growth of agricultural production, with a less rapid growth of food consumption within the Community, there have been increased difficulties of market management and a growing reliance on export markets, often with the aid of restitutions paid from the Community budget. It1) the period 1974 - 79, expenditure from the FEOGA Guarantee Section increased at an annual average rate of about 27%.
•The Community has therefore been obliged in recent years to follow a more prudent policy for agricultural prices, and to develop instruments for the participation by producers in the cost of disposing of additional production. At the same time, the Commission in its management of the markets, both as
regards domestic markets and external trade, has placed renewed emphas'ls ν'
on vigorous and timely action to expand outlets . In particular , it h;is
pursued an active export polity which has permitted the Community 's agri cultufa I exports to increase more than twice as rapidly as its imports.
These measures of market management are now clearly beginning to bear Iruit . According to the most recent estimates(l), expenditure from the Guarantee Section of FEOGA in the period 1980-82 will increase by an annual average
of only about 9%, less rapidly than the Community's resources which ar<> expected in increase by about 12% during the same period. The picture is most striking in the milk sector, for which expenditure from the Guarantee Section will actually decrease from 4,752 million ECU in 1980 to 3,675 million ECU in 1981; in this Sector we have succeeded ih raising the U;vel of prices on the world market, liquidating a large part of our stocks, and expanding our exports, while at the same time saving more than 1,000 million ECU for the budget .
Prospects for the Future
A preliminary analysis of forecasts of Community production and consumption of the main agricultural products for the coming years shows that, in many cases, production will continue to increase more rapidly than Community* consumption if there is no change in present measures and price structures .
( 1 ) taking account of the rectifying budget no . 2 for 1981 and the latest forecast for the 1982 budget .
On the oth&r hand, commercial demand for thd Community's exports will continue to grow in several different regions of the World (developing Countries , oi l-producing . countries , Eastern 'Europe and the USSR ) and
these demands must be satisfied, together with the increased effort which the Community should make in the field Of food aid. At thfe same time, some imbalances in the Community 's import arrangements could be remedied .
Taking account of these factors, the Commission should therefore decide on appropriate production objectives for each main product and formulate the price policy and other measures suitable for achieving them. Since any new measures adopted for the coming 1982/83 season would not have their full effect on production until 1983 or later, it would be appropriate to taike the year 1988 as the limit of a 5 - year horizon.
This approach will permit*more rational long-term decisions on the agricultural
policy to two
to be taken by the Community institutions. But it must be subordinate fundamental considerations :
any changes must respect the basic principles 6f the agricultural
policy, and permit the Community to honour its obligation under
Article 39 of the EEC -Treaty to ensure a fair standard of living for
the agricultural Community; no adaptations which fail to respect these , conditions could be politically viable ;
there can be no question of imposing an artificial limit on agricultural production, or of determining the level of production from year to
year at the farm or national level by administrative dictate;
what- are envisaged are targets or thresholds of production, beyond
which the Community's guarantee would be reduced or adjusted in an appropriate way.
Comparison with world markets and third countries
The Community is not alone in maintaining a system of agricultural support and guarantees of markets and incomes for its farming population. Almost without exception, other countries have agricultural support systems 0^ various kinds, and in countries of a level of economic development similar
to that of the Community, the support price level is frequently higher
than ours. For example, although the producer price for milk in New Zealand is 55% lower than in the Community and in Australia 15% lower, in the USA it is 15% higher, in Canada 18% higher and in Switzerland 55% higher.
Meanwhile the cost of agricultural support to public finances in the U!5A
is of the same proportion as in the Community (1% to 1.5% of GDP) and in Japan it is much higher (almost 5%).
The price level on world markets, on the other hand, is notoriously volatile because the quantities involved in international trade are often marginal
in relation to total production, and may Reflect short-term fluctuations in production ( eg . sugar , dairy products ). For several products ( eg . beef , wine ) there is really no world market and prices vary according to the destination
of exports. Although the Community has pursued its efforts to stabilise world markets for agricultural products, much more effective international cooperation would be needed before one could use world prices as a valid reference point .
The significance of world market prices for the Community's agricultural policy i s -nevertheless considerable , since they influence the level of cur export restitutions and therefore our budgetary costs . In many cases , the export market will in future be the only outlet for additional production exceeding the Community 's production targets , and such production will therefore realise no more than the world price. This realisation price
could therefore be taken into account, in certain cases, in measures for the financial participation of producers - as is already ihe case, for examplfe, in our system of quotas for sugar.
Orientations for products
In the Annex is an interim report on the work of analysis, which is still in progress in the services, on the principal agricultural products. The results of this work will be submitted to the Commission in final form, with more precise conclusions and orientations, in the context of the draft memorandum for transmission to the Council in the second half of October
Deliveries of milk to Community dairies in 1980 were 97 million tonnes, and off-farm consumption of milk and milk products was 85 million tonnes. Exports of milk products were equivalent to 16 million tonnes, and imports equivalent to 2 million tonnes. (The reason why the total of consumption plus exports
was greater than the total of deliveries plus imports is that stocks were reduced during the year).
Deliveries to dairies increased at an annual average of 2.6% in the period 1973-80, but in 1981 the increase has decelerated and is expected to be only 0.5% - 1.0%. Total consumption of milk in its different forms within the Community - including subsidised uses in the animal sector ( milk powder )
and for human consumption (butter) - can be expected to grow at an average of about 0.5% in the coming years.
The Community 's exports of milk products have increased! rapidly : between 1975 and 1979 our share cf the world market for butter increased from 16%
to 62%, for skimmed milk powder from 32% to 61%, and for cheese from 34% to 41% . Since 1979 we have had further success in expanding exports , while
at the same time bringing prices"on the world market to a more remunerative level through cooperation with other exporters . There are prospects for .a further increase in export demand in future, though as the leading supplier on the world market we must exercise prudence so as to maintain good prices .
As regards imports, the principal question is the future arrangements for New Zealand butter . Thes <? imports have been fixed for 1981 and 1982 /at the
level of 94 and 92 thousand tonnes respectively, and the Council has yet to take a decision on the quantity for 1983 and the arrangements after 1983. Since the consumption of "butter in the United Kingdom continues to decline, the resulting adjustment should Toe "borne not only by Community producers "but also "by New Zealanri .
Taking account of these factors, it would be reasonable to have as our objective of production that deliveries to dairies should not exceed an annual average increase of 0.5%, which is the expected rate of increase of internal demand .
having been for FE0GA. the rate of
accepted politically , and it yields a significant revenue , The Commission could therefore seek to continue it at
As regards the measures to implement this objective, a number of choices
have to /
xisting~ coresponsibiLity levy. There exists a levy at the bas!c y Ëxisting
rat"e"oT~1.5% on all milk delivered (with exemptions for mountain zones, l
Mezzogiorno and Greece) but for the 1981/82 season it has been 'Increased to 2.5% (with a reduced rate of 2.0% for the first 60,000 kg. delivered in less-favoured zones). Although criticisms have been made of this linear levy - for example, it has been argued that a lower increase in the common price would be simpler than a levy - it has the merit of
Franchise for small producers. If so, the question must be posed' whether to introduce a more general franchise, in order to assist the incomes of all small producers: for example, one could exempt from
the levy the first 40,000 kg of all deliveries (equal to the avere-ge yield of 10 cows). This would exempt more than half of the Community's
Supplementary levy . In order to discourage excessive increases in production, a dissuasive levy should be applied to additional milk deliveries . Only an additional levy of this type , rather than a linear
levy , can be really effective in controlling excessive production . But the following choices have to be made:
Method of calculation. Should the rate of levy be calculated
according to the marginal cost ofidisposal (normally the export o the marginal cost ofjdisposal(
restitution) so that the cost of additional production is completely covered without additional cost to the Community budget?
a measure would
any system of direct aids .
but only about 17% of the total milk deliveries* Such have a similar effect to that of a direct income aid to but without the administrative difficulties inherent in
– Method of application. Should the levy "be applied simply at the level of the dairies , leaving them to decide how to pass it onto individual producers, as the ComtniBsion has suggested in its earlier proposals for a supplementary levy ? Or should it "be applied at the level of the individual farms , with the dairies acting as our administrative agents ? The former approach has met with strong opposition within the Council , but the latter would also entail serious difficulties of administration and equity (problem of calculating reference Quantities for each farm, problem of young
farmers wishing to enter milk production , cons?clidat ion of existing structures of milk production to the advantage of those producers who have already attained a higher degree of efficiency.)
– Progressive rate. , Should the levy apply at a uniform rate cJ' yffo
on all additional milk, as the Commission has suggested in its earlier
proposals , or at a progressive rate more favourable to small producers . A progressive element could be introduced , foJ* example , by atmlying
a rate of yfc on the first 10,000 kg of additional milk* a rate of
on the next 10,000 kg, and so on.
Special levy for intensive production . Should there be a further element of dissuasion for additional milk delivered by farms with rn animal density of more than 3 cows per forage hectare ?
Production of beef in the Community in 1980 was 7.2 million tonne's, either • from specialised beef herds or more often from herds producing milk.
Exports Were 640,000 tonnes and imports 343*000 tonnes.
Production has increased at ah annual average rate of 2.4% in the 1970s, while consumption per head has grown at an average rate of only 1.7%. For the coming years it is estimated that production may increase by 1.5 - 2.0!t, while consumption which is strongly influenced by growth in incomes may increase
at about 0.7%. In the absence of adjustments in our policy in this sector, it is clear that there may be a growing imbalance between supply and demand.
As regards external trade, certain adjustments could be envisalge'd in the import arrangements so as to ensure a morfe effective
application of Community preference. On the export market, the Community has
had considerable success in expanding its share of world exports, from 10% to 255!/
but this is due in part to reduction in exports by other suppliers which have been, affected by cyclical factors; since demand for beef is geared to economic growth, the prospects for expanding our beef exports at more remunerative .prices are not good. The Community is therefore likely to remain a net exporter
of beef at about the same level as at present . 1'
The Community's objective should be to discourage any increase in the gap between beef production and consumption: in other words, action should be taken toensurethattheaverageproductionincreasedoesnotexceedtheconsumption •
increase .
This will require a prudent price policy, since there is a risk that fUrtfier price increases will deflect consumption to other meats, as well as
increasing the budgetary cost of our exports.
Producers should be confronted with the realities of the market, through further adjustment of the intervention system (limitation, suspension of intervention during certain periods). The existing premium measures should be
reviewed, so that they do not constitute an mentation to additional production for which there is no market.
9 . Fruit and
Production of cereals in the Community in 1979 was 135 million tonnes, With imports Of 18 million tonnes and exports ( in all forms ) of 17 million tonnes , the most important cereals traduced were wheat (45 million tonnes) barley (40
million tonnes) and maize (18 million tonnes).
Since a large part of cereals is used for animal production in the Community, an analysis of the market situation must tak* into account the demand from the animal sector and the uti li sation of cereals substitutes . In 1980 the
demand for animal feedingstlif f s in the Community was equivalent
to 282 million UF (1 Uni 14 foufragere equals 1 tonne of cereals ) which was covered" by 73 million tonnes of cerfeals ( including 13 million tonnes imported)
£nd 14 million UF of imported cereal substitutes (manioc,, brans, corn, gluten
feed , etc .) Imports of these substitutes have grown rapidly in recent years because of the Community's loW level of external protection, which gives them an advantage of price compared with Community cereals.
It is- estimated that , on present trends , thd demand for animal feedingstuf fs by, 1988 would reach 298 mi 1 1 ioh UF; of* if action is taken to control the increases in milk and beef production, 291 million UF, In the absence of any change in import conditions and relative prices, the whole of this additional demand
would be covered by imported Substitutes. Any increasfe in Community cereal production would therefore have to be exported at a cost to the Community budget
In formulating its production objectives for cereals, the Commission milst make a choice between :
r allowing unrestricted increase in the imports Ofcereals substitutes; ,
- stabilising the imports of substitutes at about the present level;
- reducing the imports of substitutes . T
the other element for which a choice , must btf made is thfc future price level of Community cereals. Several factors argue in favour of a progressive reduction of the price in relative terms:
Cereals have a central role in the Community's agricultural economy;
a relative decline in cereals prices would meah lower costs of-
production for beef, milk, pigs, poultry, eggs, and would ther&fore
permit prices in these sectors to be supported at relatively lower , levels this (in turn would make our animal production more competitive
with that of third countries . *
Our cereals production is relatively efficient: although the
average area of our farms is smaller, they have an average yield , higher than in the U.S.A. , Canada or Australia , thanks to an - intensive use of ,inputs .
Although there are fluctuations in the world market price of dereals; there exists a vaUd point of Reference in the support priced accorded to cereals producers in the U.S.A. , which in " a recent period were about 20% lower than in the Community .
From the point of view of agricultural incomes, a relative reduction in cereal prices would affect Smaller cereal producers proportionally
less than the larger producers, because the larger farms specialise , in cereals productioh while the Smaller farms tend to have a mixed farming system with other types Of production , such as animalfc .
The advantage enjoyed by imported Cereals substitutes is essentiallyv an advantage of price . It has been estimated that , if the price differential was reduced by 20 EtU/tonne, the substitutes would already begin to lose their economic interest for animal feed. A reduction in the relative price Of cereals would therefore be he logical way to solve the probl/em of substitutes.
For these reasons, it would be in the Community's interest to embark on a programme of progressive reduction of cereals prices ill relative terms.
TO avoid Unacceptable consequences for production and incomes, such a programme must be gradual : ohe could not envisage a reduction in nominal terms.- It would be a question of progressively reducing the gap between our internal prices and those "in the U.S.A. over a preiod of years up to 1988.
It must be emphasised also that Community preference in the cereals sector would be retained, since there would still be the difference between the price at which supplies from third countries could enter the Community
( threshold priqe ) and our intervention price .
Against this background, production objectives should be fixed for Community cereals; separately for wheat and for feed grains, and mechanisms should be
introduced for the participation of producers if the objective is exceeded.
A choice must be made between the application of a coresponsibi Lity Levy or the adjustment of intervention prices:
Coresponsibility levy. Such a system would be very difficult to administer in the majority of member states, where there is no obligatory point of control for sales of cereals from farms; and it could not be applied to the large quantity of cereals consumed on farms. In economic terms,-it would be less efficient than direct action on prices.
Adjustment of intervention price. In its 1981/82 price package the Commission proposed that, if Community production of the principal cereals exceeded certain basic quantities by 1%, the intervention pricesshouldbereducedby1%. Promboththeeconomicandadmi­
nistrative point of view, this has the advantage of simplicity. On the "basis of this proposal , the Council has already agreed in principle that coresponsibility should apply in 1982/83.
For these reasons, it would be preferable to pursue our earlier proposal, modified in an appropriate way, for producer participation by means of
an adjustment in intervention prices. It must be emphasised that these measures would come into action only if there was an excessive increase in Community production; they would be a comolement to the suggested price policy .
Interim action on cereals substitutes
In the long term, a programme of progressive reduction in cereals prices in relative terms will eliminate the competitive advantage presently enjoyed by cereals substitutes. But in the short and medium term, wh'lle the advantage remains, difficulties may persist on the Community's cereals market. For this reason the Community should open discussions with the principal third country suppliers of cereals substitutes for ~ the introduction of arrangements to ensure that the volume of imports does not exceed current levels. These discussions should cover all the principal substitutes (and, if necessary, new substitutes) so as to ensure coherence and avoid displacement,of demand from one product to another.
The Community already has in the sugar sector a well-developed series
of measures, by means of the A, B and C quotas, for setting production targets and ensuring producer participation . - '
In its 1981/82 price decisions the Council, adapted and renewed the quCt:a system for a future period of 5 years . 3!n fact , the market organisat J on now provides for an integral coresponsibi lity of producers in the sense that they must bear the full cost of exporting surplus sugar, other than the equivalent of the 1.3 million tons imported from ACP countries.
It would not be appropriate ac this stage to propose modifications in these arrangements .
However, the Council must review the quotas before 1 January 1984 in the light cf the situation on \«>orld markets, and that will be the occasion
to consider any necessary changes. „ In particular the Community must take account of developments in the production of other sweeteners , , such as isoglucose and other new products, which may begin to occupy an increasing share of markets in third countries to the detriment of sugar produced from beet and cane .
The Community's regime for these products includes only Limited measures for support of market prices (export restitutions, and private storage for pigmeat). Past experience has shown that the market organisation is self-regulating in the sense that prices operate t6 bring supply ard demand into balance in the medium term, while action in the fields of trade and storage may be necessary to counter short-term fluctuations.
It would not therefore be appropriate to introduce production objectives or new measures of coresponsi bi I itv in these sectors .
A relative reduction in the price* of cereals would have an importart
effect in reducing costs for ourproducers and making them more competitive on the world market : we are already highly efficient in these sectors
of production by world standards , and our exports of poultry , for
example, have al ready increased from abott 200,000 tonnes in 1977-79 to about 300,000 tonnes in 1580. There are prospects for increasing our exports in all these sectors if we pursue a reasonable management of our restitutions.
Production of wine in the Community fluctuates greatly according to the season:
the average production In the period 197Q/71 to 1979/80 was 153 million hectolitres with 9 trend increase of about 1,16%. Consumption (in the sense of direct
humpn consumption distillation yithout ^ids etc) has been steadily decreasing
at an annual average rate of 0,59% in th$ period 1970 -» 80. The balance
between production and consumption has b$en made by distillation with Community aid^ which accounted for an average of 7 million hectolitres in 1970 - 80.
Imports in 1970 - 80 averaged about 5 million hectolitres and are fairly
stable. Exports have increased from about 3 million hectolitres in 1970 to
8 million hectolitres in 1979/81 (including 2 million hectolitres which benefited from export restitutions); but export markets are limited by the fact that
most importing countries are also producers of wine.
The Community has already taken a series of measures to stabilise production
by limiting the area under vines, but at this stage it is difficult to give a precise estimate of future production in the 1980s. The Commission has taken action and made recommendations to reduce the level of taxation on wine in
the Northern countries, and if these desirable changes are made, there would
be increases in consumption in the Member States concerned which would help to offset the decline in consumption in Italy and France. i
The Community's objective should be to ayoid any increase in the gap between the trends of production and consumption.
As far as prpduction is concerned, measures have already been taken to limit the area under vines, and indeed the wine sector is the only one where a discipline of this kind 19 imposed on producers under the common agricultural policy . It is essential that these measures should be applied effectively . The structural measures fqr grubbing-up vineyarc's must also be pursued.
Distillation measures should also be improved, to ensure a more stable market and tp discourage the production of high-yield low-quality wine.
 There (nust be a reinforcement of control in the areas of production,
both to prevent frauds $nd to ensure better quality for the consumer.
Measures for this pqrpose have recently been submitted for approval of the Commission .
As regards consumption/ the member states concerned should reduce taxation of wine. Consideration should also be given to Community
encouragement for pronation of wing, both on the internal market and on the export market .
The analysis of measures necessary in this
sector is particularly complicated "because of the diversity of products concerned.
Examination is continuing within the services .
Bruxelles, i$Oth Septembe ■
Note for the attention of Mr DEPAUS
Please find enclosed the foreseen paper for the Commission's orientation debate on the follow-up to the Mandate Report on Agriculture . The document should be considered as SECRET .
The translation into French and German is taking place in Cortenberg.
( Communication from Mr Dalsager )
- This question is on the agenda for the 619th meeting of the Commission, on Wednesday 30th September 1981 , under item 10 .
 Communication from Mr. Dalsager to the Commission MANDATE OF 30 MAY 1980 : AGRICULTURE
At its meeting on 16 September 1981 the Commission decided that it would adopt a document cn agriculture at its meeting on 21 - 23 October for transmission to the Council; and that there would be a first orientation debate on agriculture at the Commission's meeting on 30 September.
Work is continuing in my services on the preparation of the document for
the Council/ taking account of the principles set out in the Commission's Mandate report of 24 June 1981. In the meantime/ the attached note serves
as an interim report/ and a basis for the first orientations of the Commission.
In its report on the Mandate (C0M(81)300 of 24 June 1981) the Commission recommended that future decisions on the common agricultural policy should be based on certain guidelines , including :
- a price policy based on the narrowing of the gap between Community prices and those applied by its main competitors;
- modulation of guarantees in line with Community production targets; - mutual coherence between the commercial and agricultural policies.
The Commission will submit a memorandum to the Council in the second half of October, with a more detailed analysis and indications of the Commission's
guidelines for prices , production objectives , producer participation and trade The present communication gives a first analysis, and submits certain choices for the Commission.
Results achieved by the common agricultural policy
Since its inception, the common agricultural policy has achieved a considerabl degree of success in attaining the objectives set out in Article 39 of the
EEC Treaty. In a time of general economic difficulty, it has protected producers' incomes. It has succeeded in increasing agricultural productivity stabilising markets, and assuring the availability of supplies to consumers
One indication of this success is the increase in the Community's degree of self-sufficiency for many of the principal agricultural products.
 However, this success has been accompanied by its own problems. Because of the continued growth of agricultural production, with a less rapid growth of food consumption within the Community, there have been increased difficulties of market management and a growing reliance on export markets, often with the aid of restitutions paid from the Community budget. In the period 1974 - 79, expenditure from the FEOGA Guarantee Section increased at an annual average rate of about 27%.
The Community has therefore been obliged in recent years to follow a more prudent policy for agricultural prices, and to develop instruments for the participation by producers in the cost of disposing of additional production. At the same time, the Commission in its management of the markets, both as regards domestic markets and external trade, has placed renewed emphasis
on vigorous and timely action to expand outlets. In particular, it has
pursued an active export policy which has permitted the Community's agricultural exports to increase more than twice as rapidly as its imports.
These measures of market management are now clearly beginning to bear fruit. According to the most recent estimatesd), expenditure from the Guarantee Section of FEOGA in the period 1980-82 will increase by an annual average
of only about 9%, less rapidly than the Community's resources which are expected in increase by about 12% during the same period. The picture is most striking in the milk sector, for which expenditure from the Guarantee Section will actually decrease from 4,752 million ECU in 1980 to 3,675 million ECU in 1981; in this sector we have succeeded in raising the level of prices on the world market, liquidating a large part of our stocks, and expanding our exports, while at the same time saving more than 1,000 million ECU for the budget.
Prospects for the Future
A preliminary analysis of forecasts of Community production and consumption of the main agricultural products for the coming years shows that, in many cases, production will continue to increase more rapidly than Community consumption if there is no change in present measures and price structures .
( 1 ) taking account of the rectifying budget no . 2 for 1981 and the latest forecast for the 1982 budget.
On the other hand, commercial demand for the Community's exports will continue to grow in several different regions of the world (developing countries , oil-producing countries , Eastern Europe and the USSR ) and
these demands must be satisfied, together with the increased effort which the Community should make in the field of food aid. At the same time, some imbalances in the Community's import arrangements could be remedied.
Taking account of these factors, the Commission should therefore decide on appropriate production objectives for each main product and formulate the price policy and other measures suitable for achieving them. Since any new measures adopted for the coming 1982/83 season would not have their full effect on production until 1983 or later, it would be appropriate to take the year 1988 as the limit of a 5 - year horizon.
This approach will permit more rational long-term decisions on the agricultural
policy to two
to be taken by the Community institutions. But it must be subordinate fundamental considerations :
any changes must respect the basic principles of the agricultural policy, and permit the Community to honour its obligation under
Article 39 of the EEC Treaty to ensure a fair standard of living for the agricultural Community; no adaptations which fail to respect these conditions could be politically viable;
there can be no question of imposing an artificial limit on agricultural production, or of determining the level of production from year to
year at the farm or national level by administrative dictate;
what are envisaged are targets or thresholds of production, beyond
which the Community's guarantee would be reduced or adjusted in an appropriate way.
Comparison with world markets and third countries
The Community is not alone in maintaining a system of agricultural support and guarantees of markets and incomes for its farming population. Almost without exception, other countries have agricultural support systems of various kinds, and in countries of a level of economic development similar
to that of the Community, the support price level is frequently higher
than ours. For example, although the producer price for milk in New Zealand is 55% lower than in the Community and in Australia 15% lower, in the USA it is 15% higher, in Canada 18% higher and in Switzerland 55% higher.
Meanwhile the cost of agricultural support to public finances in the USA
is of the same proportion as in the Community (1% to 1.5% of GDP) and in Japan it is much higher (almost 5%).
The price level on world markets, on the other hand, is notoriously volatile because the quantities involved in international trade are often marginal
in relation to total production, and may reflect short-term fluctuations in production (eg. sugar, dairy products). For several products (eg. beef, wine) there is really no world market and prices vary according to the destination
of exports. Although the Community has pursued its efforts to stabilise world markets for agricultural products, much more effective international cooperation would be needed before one could use world prices as a valid reference point.
The significance of world market prices for the Community's agricultural policy is nevertheless considerable, since they influence the level of our export restitutions and therefore our budgetary costs . In many cases , the export market will in future be the only outlet for additional production exceeding the Community's production targets, and such production will therefore realise no more than the world price. This realisation price
could therefore be taken into account, in certain cases,*<in measures for the financial participation of producers - as is already the case, for examplk,
in our system of quotas for sugar. - ■- ■ ~'"<i /
Orientations for products
In the Annex is an interim report on the work of analysis, which is still in progress in the services , on the principal agricultural products . The results of this work will be submitted to the Commission in final form, with more precise conclusions and orientations* irr the context of the draft memorandum for transmission to the Council in the second half of October .
5. Pigmeat, Eggs and Poultry
9. Fruit and Vegetables
Production of cereals in the Community in 1979 was 135 million tonnes, with imports of 18 million tonnes and exports (in all forms) of 17 million tonnes. The most important cereals produced were wheat (45 million tonnes) barley (40
million tonnes) and maize (18 million tonnes).
Since a large part of cereals is used for animal production in the Community, an analysis of the market situation must take into account the demand from the animal sector and the utilisation of cereals substitutes. In 1980 the
demand for animal feedingstuffs in the Community was equivalent
to 282 million UF (1 Unit6 fourragere equals 1 tonne of cereals ) which was covered by 73 million tonnes of cereals (including 13 million tonnes imported) and 14 million UF of imported cereal substitutes (manioc, brans, corn, gluten feed, etc.) Imports of these substitutes have grown rapidly in recent years because of the Community's low level of external protection, which gives them an advantage of price compared with Community cereals.
It is estimated that, on present trends, the demand for animal feedingstuffs by 1988 would reach 298 million UF; or if action is taken to control the increases in milk and beef production, 291 million UF, In the absence of any change in import conditions and relative prices, the whole of this additional demand
would be covered by imported substitutes. Any increase in Community cereal production would therefore have to be exported at a cost to the Community budget.
In formulating its production objectives for cereals, the Commission must make a choice between :
allowing unrestricted increase in the imports of cereals substitutes; stabilising the imports of substitutes at about the present level; reducing the imports of substitutes .
The other element for which a choice must be made is the future price level of Community cereals. Several factors argue in favour of a progressive reduction of the price in relative terms:
Cereals have a central role in the Community's agricultural economy;
a relative decline in cereals prices would mean lower costs of production for beef, milk, pigs, poultry, eggs, and would therefore permit prices in these sectors to be supported at relatively lower levels this in turn would make our animal production more competitive
with that of third countries .
Our cereals production is relatively efficient: although the
average area of our farms is smaller, they have an average yield higher than in the U.S.A., Canada or Australia, thanks to an t 1-1 ^ intensive use of inputs .
Although there are fluctuations in the world market price of cereals; there exists a valid point of reference in the support prices accorded to cereals producers in the U.S.A., which in a recent period were about 20% lower than in the Community .
From the point of view of agricultural incomes, a relative reduction in cereal prices would affect smaller cereal producers proportionally less than the larger producers, because the larger farms specialise in cereals production while the smaller farms tend to have a mixed farming system with other types of production, such as animals.
The advantage enjoyed by imported cereals substitutes is essentially an advantage of price. It has been estimated that, if the price differential was reduced by 20 ECU/tonne, the substitutes would already begin to lose their economic interest for animal feed. A reduction in the relative price of cereals would therefore be the
logical way to solve the problem of substitutes. •
For these reasons, it would be in the Community's interest to embark on a programme of progressive reduction of cereals prices in relative terms.
To avoid unacceptable consequences for production and incomes, such a programme must be gradual : one could not envisage a reduction in nominal terms. It would be a question of progressively reducing the gap between our internal prices and those in the U.S.A. over a preiod of years up to 1988.
It must be emphasised also that Community preference in the cereals sector would be retained, since there would still be the difference between the price at which supplies from third countries could enter the Community
(threshold price ) and our intervention price .
Against this background, production objectives should be fixed for Community cereals; separately for wheat and for feed grains, and mechanisms should be
introduced for the participation of producers if the objective is exceeded.
A choice must be made between the application of a coresponsibi Lity levy or the adjustment of intervention prices:
Coresponsibility levy. Such a system would be very difficult to administer in the majority of member states, where there is no obligatory point of control for sales of cereals from farms; and it could not be applied to the large quantity of cereals consumed on farms. In economic terms, it would be less efficient than direct action on prices.
Adjustment of intervention price. In its 1981/82 price package the Commission proposed that, if Community production of the principal cereals exceeded certain basic quantities by 1%, the intervention pricesshouldbereducedby1%. Prom"both-theeconomicandadmi­
nistrative point of view, this has the advantage of simplicity. On the Tsasis of this proposal , the Council has already agreed in principle that ^responsibility should apply in 1982/83#
For these reasons, it would be preferable to pursue our earlier proposal, raodified in an appropriate way, for producer participation by means of
an adjustment in intervention prices. It must be emphasised that these measures would come into action only if there was an excessive increase in Communityproduction; theywouldbeacomplementtothesuggestedprice policy.
Interim action on cereals substitutes
In the long term, a programme of progressive reduction in cereals prices in relative terms will eliminate the competitive advantage presently enjoyed by cereals substitutes. But in the short and medium term, while the advantage remains, difficulties may persist on the Community's cereals market. For this reason the Community should open discussions with the principal third country suppliers of cereals substitutes for . " the introduction of arrangements to ensure that the volume of imports does not exceed current levels. These discussions should cover all the principal substitutes (and, if necessary, new substitutes) so as to ensure coherence and avoid displacement of demand from one product to another.
The Community already has in the sugar sector a well-developed series of measures, by means of the A, B and C quotas, for setting production targets and ensuring producer participation.
In its 1981/82 price decisions the Council adapted and renewed the quota system for a future period of 5 years. In fact, the market organisation now provides for an integral coresponsibility of producers in the sense that they must bear the full cost of exporting surplus sugar, other than the equivalent of the 1.3 million tons imported from ACP countries.
It would not be appropriate at this stage to propose modifications in these arrangements.
However, the Council must review the quotas before 1 January 1984 in the light of the situation on world markets, and that will be the occasion
to consider any necessary changes. In particular the Community must take
account of developments in the production of other sweeteners, such as isoglucose and other new products, which may begin to occupy an increasing
share of markets in third countries to the detriment of sugar produced from beet and cane .
Deliveries of milk to Community dairies in 1980 were 97 million tonnes, and off-farm consumption of milk and milk products was 85 million tonnes. Exports of milk products were equivalent to 16 million tonnes, and imports equivalent to 2 million tonnes. (The reason why the total of consumption plus exports
was greater than the total of deliveries plus imports is that stocks were reduced during the year).
Deliveries to dairies increased at an annual average of 2.6% in the period 1973-80, but in 1981 the increase has decelerated and is expected to be only 0.5% - 1.0%. Total consumption of milk in its different forms within the Community - including subsidised uses in the animal sector (milk powder)
and for human consumption (butter) - can be expected to grow at an average of about 0.5% in the coming years.
The Community's exports of milk products have increased rapidly: between 1975 and 1979 our share of the world market for butter increased from 16%
to 62%, for skimmed milk powder from 32% to 61%, and for cheese from 34% to 41%. Since 1979 we have had further success in expanding exports, while
at the same time bringing prices on the world market to a more remunerative level through cooperation with other exporters. There are prospects for a further increase in export demand in future, though as the leading supplier on the world market we must exercise prudence so as to maintain good prices.
As regards imports, the principal question is the future arrangements for New Zealand butter. These imports have been fixed for 1981 and 1982 at the
level of 94 and 92 thousand tonnes respectively, and the Council has yet to take a decision on the quantity for 1983 and the arrangements after 1983. Since the consumption cxf butter in the United Kingdom continues to decline, the resulting adjustment should be "borne not' only by Community producers but also by New Zealand. - ........
Taking account of these factors, it would be reasonable to have as our objective of production that deliveries to dairies should not exceed an annual average increase of 0.5%, which is the expected rate of increase of internal demand .
pate of 1.5% on
to 2.5% (with a
in less-favoured zones). Although criticisms have been made of this linear levy - for example, it has been argueif that a lower increase in the common price would be simpler thfi* a levy - it has the merit of having been accepted politically, and it yields a significant revenue for FE0GA. The Commission could therefore seek to continue it at
the rate of 2.5% .
Franchise for small producers. If so, the question must be posed whether to introduce a more general franchise, in order to assist the incomes of all small producers: for example, one could exempt from
the levy the first 40,000 kg of all deliveries (equal to the average yield of 10 cows). This would exempt more than half of the Community's milk producers, but only about 17% of the total milk deliverTes. Such a measure would have a similar effect to that of a direct income aid to small producers but without the administrative difficulties inherent in any system of direct aids.
As regards the measures to implement this objective, a number of choices
have
to be made :
(a) Existing coresponsiblCity Levy. There exists a levy at the basic
all milk delivered (with exemptions for mountain zones, Greece ) but for the 1981 / 82 season it has been increased
reduced rate of 2.0% for the first 60,000 kg. delivered
(b) Supplementary levy. In order to discourage excessive increases in production, a dissuasive levy should be applied to additional milk deliveries. Only an additional levy of this type, rather than a linear levy, can be really effective in controlling excessive production.
But the following choices have to be made:
Method of calculation. Should the rate of levy be calculated according to the marginal cost of disposal (normally the export restitution) so that the cost of additional production is completely covered without additional cost to the Community budget?
Method of application. Should the levy "be applied simply at the level of the dairies , leaving them to decide how to pass it onto individual producers, as the Commission has suggested in its earlier proposals for a supplementary levy ? Or should it "be applied at the level of the individual farms , with the dairies acting as our administrative agents ? The former approach has met with strong opposition within the Council, tut the latter would also entail serious difficulties of administration and equity (problem of calculating reference quantities for each farm, problem of young farmers wishing to enter milk production, consolidation of existing structures of milk production to the advantage of those producers who have already attained a higher degree of efficiency.)
Progressive rate. Should the levy apply at a uniform rate of iffo
on all additional milk, as the Commission has suggested in its earlier proposals , or at a progressive rate more favourable to small producers .
A progressive element could be introduced , for example , by applying a rate of y$ on the first 10,000 kg of additional milk, a rate of x$ on the next 10,000 kg, and so on.
(c) Special levy for intensive production. Should there be a further element of dissuasion for additional milk delivered by farms with an animal density of more than 3 cows per forage hectare ?
Production of beef in the Community in 1980 was 7.2 million tonnes, either from specialised beef herds or more often from herds producing milk. Exports were 640,000 tonnes and imports 343,000 tonnes.
Production has increased at an annual average rate of 2.4% in the 1970s, while consumption per head has grown at an average rate of only 1.7Z. For the coming years it is estimated that production may increase by 1.5 - 2.0Z, while consumption which is strongly influenced by growth in incomes may increase
at about 0.7Z. In the absence of adjustments in our policy in this sector, it is clear that there may be a growing imbalance between supply and demand.
As regards.- externa I trade,tscerta3bai9djustmentSjscoui.d befsnvi^agedi i«)f thfi, ;t » importearrangements so^as to ensur* » moret£ffect?iyei_sKjre .. V
application of Community preference. On the export market, the Community has had considerable success in expanding its share of world exports from 10% to 25%, but this is due in part to reduction in exports by other suppliers which have been affected by cyclical factors; since demand for beef is geared to economic growth, the prospects for expanding our beef exports at more remunerative prices are not good. The Community is therefore likely to remain a net exporter
of beef at about the same level as at present .
The Community's objective should be to discourage any increase in the gap between beef production and consumption: in other words, action should be taken to ensure that the average production increase does not exceed the consumption increase .
This will require a prudent price policy, since there is a risk that further price increases will deflect consumption to other meats, as well as increasing the budgetary cost of our exports.
Producers should be confronted with the realities of the market, through further adjustment of the intervention system (limitation, suspension of intervention during certain periods). The existing premium measures should be
 reviewed, so that they do not constitute an mentation to additional production for which there is no market.
The Community's regime for these products includes only Limited measures for support of market prices (export restitutions/ and private storage for pigmeat). Past experience has shown that the market organisation is self-regulating in the sense that prices operate to bring supply and demand into balance in the medium term/ while action in the fields of trade and storage may be necessary to counter short-term fluctuations.
It would not therefore be appropriate to introduce production objectives or new measures of coresponsibi lity in these sectors .
A relative reduction in the price of cereals would have an important
effect in reducing costs for ourproducers and making them more competitive on the world market : we are already highly efficient in these sectors
of production by world standards/ and our exports of poultry/ for
example/ have already increased from aboit 200/ 000 tonnes in 1977-79 to about 300/000 tonnes in 1980. There are prospects for increasing our exports in all these sectors if we pursue a reasonable management of our restitutions.
Production of wine in the Community fluctuates greatly according to the season:
the average production in the period 1970/71 to 1979/80 was 153 million hectolitres with a trend increase of about 1.16%. Consumption (in the sense of direct
human consumption, distillation without aids etc) has been steadily decreasing
at an annual average rate of 0.59% in the period 1970 - 80. The balance
between production and consumption has been made by distillation with Community aid, which accounted for an average of 7 million hectolitres in 1970 - 80.
Imports in 1970 - 80 averaged about 5 million hectolitres and are fairly
stable. Exports have increased from about 3 million hectolitres in 1970 to
8 million hectolitres in 1979/81 (including 2 million hectolitres which benefited from export restitutions); but export markets are limited by the fact that
most importing countries are also producers of wine.
The Community has already taken a series of measures to stabilise production by limiting the area under vines, but at this stage it is difficult to give a precise estimate of future production in the 1980s. The Commission has taken action and made recommendations to reduce the level of taxation on wine in
the Northern countries, and if these desirable changes are made, there would be increases in consumption in the Member States concerned which would help to offset the decline in consumption in Italy and France.
The Community's objective should be to avoid any increase in the gap between the trends of production and consumption.
As far as production is concerned, measures have already been taken to limit
the area under vines, and indeed the wine sector is the only one discipline of this kind is imposed on producers under the common policy. It is essential that these measures shoutd be applied
The structural measures for grubbing-up vineyards must also be pursued.
Distillation measures should also be improved, to ensure a more stable market and to discourage the production of high-yield low-quality wine.
where a agricultural effectively .
There must be a reinforcement of control in the areas of production, both to prevent frauds and to ensure better quality for the consumer. Measures for this purpose have recently been submitted for approval of the Commission .
As regards consumption, the member states concerned should reduce taxation of wine. Consideration should also be given to Community encouragement for promotion of wine, both on the internal market and on the export market.
The analysis of measures necessary in this
sector is particularly complicated because of the diversity of products concerned.
Examination is continuing within the services .
- This qu^stioiVHS on the agenda for the 619th meeting of the Commission/ on Wednesday 3toh September 1981/ under item 10.
Communication from Mr Dalsager) Jr
 s1 Communication from Mr. Dalsager to the Commission
At its meeting on 16 September 1981 the Commission decidedythat \Χ would
adopt a document cn agriculture at its meeting on 21 - 25^ October for on 21 -2\y
/L debate on agriculture at the Commission's meeting ornt 30
/ / Work is continuing in my services on the preparation^of
transmission to the Council; and that there would be/6 firs/'orientation
the document for the Council- taking account of the principles set/out in the Commission's
Mandate report of 24 June 1981 . In the meantime , the attached note serves
as an interim report, and a basis forXne ^j*st orientations of the Commission.
tuld be/S fi
In its report on the Mandate (C0M(81)3U0 of 24 June 1981) the Commission Jr recommended that future decisions on the common agricultural policy should^ ,
be based on certain guidelines, including: . Jr Jr
- a price policy based on the narrowing of the gap between Compwnitjir prices and those applied by its main competitors; JF
- modulation of guarantees in line with Community production targets; - mutual coherence between the commercial and agricut^uraUpolicies.
The Commission will submit a memorandum to the Counc^T injrne second half of October, with a more detailed analysis and indications On the Commission's guidelines for prices, production objectives, D^oducar participation and trade.
The present communication gives a first anabftls^md submits certain choices for the Commission. JBS&mr
Results achieved by the common agricj^urj^policy
Since its inception, the common n^Ttural policy has achieved a**cevisiderable r ••••••
iectives set out in Article 39«»o degree of success in attaininartheyDjectives set out in Article ^9-o.f the
EEC' Treaty. In a time of^enera* economic difficulty, it has protected producers' incomes. ItJ^a^jJlcceededi in increasing agricultural.pVbductivity,
stabilising markets, id assuring the availability of supplies to'censumers at reasonable priced
One indicatioo^f tWs success is the increase in the Community's degree of self-suffigirency^or many of the principal agricultural products.
However, this success has been ^gcotap^Q.fe^'byitS* own problems. Because
of the continued growth of agricultural production, with a less rapid J growth of food consumption within the Community, there have been increasaff^
difficulties of market management and a growing reliance on export manirets^
often with the aid of restitutions paid from the Community budget. Jfir\ tjfce
period 1974 - 79, expenditure from the FEOGA Guarantee Section in^reaspcT at an annual average rate of about 27Z. Jt Jr
The Community has therefore been obliged in recent yearsJfO foWtow a more
prudent policy for agricultural prices, and to develo^jffnstjjtfments for the participation by producers in the cost of disposing^^ additional production.
At the same time, the Commission, in its managemerar of tlfe markets, both as regards domestic markets and external trade, hjfs plajred renewed emphasis
on vigorous and timely action to expand outl&&jmjrln particular, it has
pursued an active export policy which haa^ennicted the Community's agricultural exports to increase more than twice as^^pyiry as its imports.
of only about 9%, less ra^fd^jj^ian the Community's resources whicV^Ve expected in increase byaboyjr 12% during the same period. The picture is most striking in th^^t^sector, for which expenditure from the Gy&r&ntee Section will actuj^|®»S£rease from 4,752 million ECU in 1980 to 3,675 million ECU inj^8l£Jnn this sector we have succeeded in raising the level of prices or^fche ufcrld market, liquidating a large part of our stocks, and expandingJBur ejiports, while at the same time saving more than 1^000 million ECU foi^he bodget.
for the Future
A Drelimmary analysis of forecasts of Community production and consumption pf the main agricultural products for the coming years shows that, in many cases, production will continue to increase more rapidly than Community consumption if there is no change in present measures and price structures .
( 1 ) taking account of the rectifying budget no . 2 for 1981 and the latest forecast for the 1982 budget.
These measures of market managemadr a^^now clearly beginning to beij; fruit . According to the most recent eatfWiRd), expenditure from the Guarantee
•••• Section of FEOGA in the Perj®°S9aiO-82 will increase by an annual average
On the other hand/ commercial deWancf for the Community's exports will
continue to grow in several different regions of the world (developing
countries , oil-producing countries , Eastern Europe and the USSR ) and
these demands must be satisfied, together with the increased effort uM
Community should make in the field of food aid. At the same time^so imbalances in the Community's import arrangements could be remedied. J
Taking account of these factors, the Commission should thenCfor^roecide on appropriate production objectives for each main product j^fnd formulate the
price policy and other measures suitable for achieviij^themr Since any new measures adopted for the coming 1982/83 season wou^i notoftave their full
effect on production until 1983 or later, it vo\Jta be^eppropriate to take the year 1988 as the limit of a 5 - year horizon.J®%:-J(r
This approach will permit more rational
j^erm decisions on the agricultural ions . But it must be subordinate
policy to two
to be taken by the Community vA fundamental considerations
any changes must respejw .thlfDasic principles of the agricultural
policy, and permit unity to honour its obligation uradar ••
Article 39 of th^^( ECareaty to ensure a fair standard of Living for Community; no adaptations which fail to reflect these
the agricultui^C^ conditions adGCa b
politically viable;
there cajrbe jw question of imposing an artificial limit on agricultural produGCion«ior of determining the level of production from year to
yeairat fcne farm or national level by administrative dictate;
Wfiat a|re envisaged are targets or thresholds of production, beyond pwhian the Community's guarantee would be reduced or adjusted in an
appropriate way.
^ojpparison with world markets and third countries
The Community is not alone in maintaining a system of agricultural support
and guarantees of markets and incomes for its farming population. Almost without exception, other countries have agricultural support systems of various kinds, and in countries of a level of economic development similar
to that of the Community/ the support price level is frequently higher than ours. For example, although the producer price for milk in New Zeal is 55% lower than in the Community and in Australia 15% lower, in the
is 15% higher, in Canada 18% higher and in Switzerland 55% higher. Jr ^ Meanwhile the cost of agricultural support to public finances in jfffe USffr is of the same proportion as in the Community (1% to 1.5% of andHn Japan it is much higher (almost 5%).
The price level on world markets, on the' other hand, iaffiotonrtously volatile because the quantities involved in international trade ara^ften marginal
in relation to total production, and may reflect jwort^erm fluctuations in production (eg. sugar, dairy products). For a^veraJrproducts (eg. beef, wine)
there is really no world market and prices ^f^^olording to the destination of exports. Although the Community hasypijraUpG its efforts to stabilise world markets for agricultural product^MBucp^more effective international cooperation would be needed before omTfcomra use world prices as a valid reference point.
ices for the Community's agricalteraI ••••
>le, since they influence the leveVM our ••••
The significance of world policy is nevertheless co export restitutions ancLw export market will imxut
^exceeding the Com
therefore real vre ncSffiore than the world price. This realisation price
could there^rfe bjjrtaken into account, in certain cases, in measures for the financialJpartijnpation of producers - as is already the case, for examplfe,
In Jine Annex is an interim report on the work of analysis, which is still i* progress in the services, on the principal agricultural products. The results of this work will be submitted to the Commission in final form, with more precise conclusions and orientations, in the context of the draft memorandum for transmission to the Council in the second half of October .
our budgetary costs. In many case's, the •••
be the only outlet for additional preelection
production targets, and such production will
Interim report of the product-by-product analysis.
9. Fruit and Vegetables ^Sw
Production of cereals in the Comiftbnity in 1979 was 135 million tonnes, with A imports of 18 million tonnes and exports (in alL forms) of 17 million tonnarT
The most important cereals produced were wheat (45 million tonnes) barl&jr(4QJ million tonnes) and maize (18 million tonnes). jJr
Since a large part of cereals is used for animal production in tire Community,
an analysis of the market situation must take into account tharaemajpra from the animal sector and the utilisation of cereals substitutes. Alx\ 1360 the
demand for animal feedingstuffs in the Community was eqwroalertr
to 282 million UF (1 Unitsfourragere equals 1 tonne oJrcere^Ks) which was covered by 73 million tonnes of cereals (including^? minion tonnes imported)
and 14 million UF of imported cereal substituteapman^rc, brans, corn, gluten feed, etc.) Imports of these substitutes ha^e^gr^m rapidly in recent years
because of the Community's low level of ext^rj®E^protection, which gives them an advantage of price compared with Commp^t^jFereals.
It is estimated that, on present tMnds^^he demand for animal feeeT'n'gstuffs by ••••
1988 would reach 298 million UFr^ror Jy action is taken to control.frfo increases
in milk and beef production, S^TmJ^ion UF, In the absence of aitychange in ••••
import conditions and ces, t'ie whole of this additiona.l»*<J§mand
would be covered by imposed sjlrostitutes. Any increase in Commuruty cereal production would therefore Jy^ve to be exported at a cost to the CoTjjrTtJnity budget .
In formulating ijspryRiction objectives for cereals, the Commission must make
- ^Bllo^mg unrestricted increase in the imports of cereals substitutes; sterilising the imports of substitutes at about the present level;
JF- ^reducing the imports of substitutes.
ThMlother element for which a choice must be made is the future price level of Community cereals. Several factors argue in favour of a progressive reduction of the price in relative terms:
Cereals have a central role in the Community's agricultural economy; a relative decline in cereals prices would mean lower costs of
production for beef, milk, pigs, poultry, eggs, and would therefore permit prices in these sectors to be supported at relatively lower levels this in turn would make our animal production more competitive
 with that of third count?iW.*«* ■ Jr
Our cereals production is relatively efficient: although the JF jw average area of our farms is smaller, they have an average yij*d jW higher than in the U.S.A./ Canada or Australia/ thanks to '.Jw
intensive use of inputs. JF; Jr Although there are fluctuations in the world market QH ce 2* cereals ;
there exists a valid point of reference in the support ounces accorded
to cereals producers in the U.S.A./ which in- a oecen^Teriod were about «
20% lower than in the Community .
From the point of view of agricultural incomes^ a relative reduction in cereal prices would affect smallenJcerealc producers proportionally
less than the larger producers/ bej(9y««p^ne larger farms specialise in cereals production while the^Bmary^ farms tend to have a mixed farming system with other tyMBo'jyproduction/ such as animals.
The advantage enjoyed cereals substitutes is |g§entially an advantage of pricedF"1'^Jc has been estimated that/ if "ttre* price
differential was i^iraucecLroy 20 ECU/tonne/ the substitutes"*«w>tild already begin to^fofa^friei r economic interest for animal 'teed. A
reduction in Jme rafative price of cereals would therefc;e-.j£e the
logical wajRfc&s^ve the problem of substitutes.
For these reaathS/^T would be in the Community's interest to embark on a programme ojrproa^ssive reduction of cereals prices in relative terms.
To avoid^Bnaccjptable consequences for production and incomes/ such a prograrmrie JJJipt be gradual : one could not envisage a reduction in nominal
terjp. /Jn would be a question of progressively reducing the gap between our internJc prices and those in the U.S.A. over a preiod of years up to 1988.
^t mast be emphasised also that Community preference in the cereals sector
i^uld be retained/ since there would still be the difference between the ^>rice at which supplies from third countries could enter the Community
(threshold price ) and our intervention price .
Against this background, production objectives should be fixed for Community cereals; separately for wheat and for feed grains, and mechanisms should be
 For these
Coresponsibi lity levy. Such a system would be very difinculj^o
administer in the majority of member states, where there i^rno obligatory point of control for sales of cereals f&dm faaffis; and it
could not be applied to the large quantity of carealsjronsumed on
farms. In economic terms, it would be less arficipnt than direct action on prices . JF .JF
Adjustment of intervention price . Iorits J981 /82 price package the
Commission proposed that, if Commua^f^ppeduction of the principal cereals exceeded certain basic mfent^^s by 1%, the intervention prices should be reduced by "both the economic and admi­
nistrative point of view, 1JK3 1^5 the advantage of simplicity. On the "basis of this pro|«a^^ahe Council has already a^f.edd in principle that corespoifalti^Fty should apply in 1982/83#:"***:
reasons , it woiJra be . ^ efera'ole to pursue our earlier proposai , • •••*
introduced for the participaji$rj cjf; p^ffdjice/s; ijf the objective is exceeded. ■•••«•«9
A choice must be made between the application of a coresponsibility levyjfr thj adjustment of intervention prices: • Jr
modified in an appropriate vary, for producer participation by meap^ <}f
measures would action only if there was an excessive increase in Community produttioryr they would be a comolement to the suggested price
InteriB^ctipn on cereals substitutes
In Jfrie long term, a programme of progressive reduction in cereals prices
ifi relative terms will eliminate the competitive advantage presently
enjoyed by cereals substitutes. But in the short and medium term, while
pne advantage remains, difficulties may persist on the Community's cereals market. For this reason the Community should open discussions with the
principal third country suppliers of cereals substitutes for." the introduction of arrangements to ensure that the volume of imports does not exceed current levels . These discussions should cover' all the principal substitutes (and, if necessary, new substitutes) so as to ensure coherence and avoid displacement of demand from one product to another.
It must be emphasised that.Ithese an adjustment in inrtg^wnybn prices. It must be emphasised thjwt..these
The Community already has in the sugar sector a well-developed series Jr of measures, by means of the A, B and C quotas, for setting production^ £ targets and ensuring producer participation. Jp- Jjr
In its 1981/82 price decisions the Council adapted and renewed^he^uota system for a future period of 5 years. In fact, the markar organisation
now provides for an integral coresponsib,i lity of produc^re inJrne sense that they must bear the full cost of exporting surplus sugar, ot^er than the equivalent of the 1.3 million tons imported from A^cougrries.
It would not be appropriate at this stage to oroposirmodifications in these arrangements.
However, the Council must review the aJotajyoefore 1 January 1984 in the light of the situation on world maN^tts^md that will be the occasion
to consider any necessary changej^ jJr
account of developments in tha^jroMction of other sweeteners, suc1J**as
isoglucose and other new prjlBuctar which may begin to occupy an increasing share of markets in third^ourJries to the detriment of sugar proiiw&Sd from beet and cane . Jr
particular the Community mwl't take
Deliveries of milk to Community dairies in 1980 were 97 million tonnes, and Jfr off-farm consumption of milk and milk products was 85 million tonnes. Exports of milk products were equivalent to 16 million tonnes, and imports equi^alenlr to 2 million tonnes. (The reason why the total of consumption plusjftpords was greater than the total of deliveries plus imports is that stoofcs wejpC reduced during the year). jfr Jjr
Deliveries to dairies increased at an annual average of 2^6% iryChe period 1973-80, but in 1981 the increase has decelerated and jr sxpdcted to be only 0.5% - 1.0Z. Total consumption of milk in its diffafrentjrorms within the
Community - including subsidised uses in the animj^ sector (milk powder) and for human consumption (butter) - can be exoectecL(Ko grow at an average of about 0.5% in the coming years.
The Community's exports of milk produc^^rWarincreased rapidly: between
1975 and 1979 our share of the worlc^rarl^r for butter increased from 16%
to 62%, for skimmed milk powder fjMi 32^to 61%, and for cheese fi*cw.?54% to ••••
41%. Since 1979 we have had tdrVto^success in expanding export5,„iifhiIe
at the same time bringing prjrcesi QJTthe world market to a more re[8unb*ative ••••
level through cooperationJnt4Jfher exporters. There are prosp$*c*f*» for a ••••
further increase in exafft damand in future, though as the leadina. supplier dtem m • ••
on the world market jMt&usjT exercise prudence so as to maintain g;*>€l« prices .
As regards imports, ilfe principal question is the future arrangements for New ZealandJfuttenfr These imports have been fixed for 1981 and 1982 at the
level of 9f anyP2 thousand tonnes respectively, and the Council has yet to take aiecision on the quantity for 1983 and the arrangements after 1983.
Sin^^heJeonsumption of "butter in the United Kingdom continues to decline,
tbe resulting adjustment should "be "borne not only by Community producers Cut .jiiso "by New Zealand.
Taking account of these factors, it would be reasonable to have as our objective of production that deliveries to dairies should not exceed an annual average increase of 0.5%, which is the expected rate of increase of internal demand .
As regards the measures to impjlejnfent jtttite fcbifcittve, a number of choices
have to be made :
(a) Existing coresponsibility levy. There exists a levy at the bas* A
rate of 1.5% on all milk delivered (with" exemptions for mountaij^one^
Mezzogiorno and Greece ) but for the 1981 / 82 season it has beeir "increased
to 2.5% (with a reduced rate of 2.0% for the first 60,000 kg. dajnvered
in less-favoured zones). Although criticisms have beeormad^of this
linear levy - for example, it has been argued that aJrowerymcrease in
the common price would be simpler than- a levy - i^jfnas tfre merit of
having been accepted politically, and it yields^Tsignificant revenue for FEOGA. The Commission could therefore arek tarcontinue it at
the rate of 2.5% .
Franchise for small producers. If ailfJEtidrquestion must be posed
whether to introduce a more generaJ^frfcjMfnise, in order to assist the incomes of all small producers:^^<Sl^cample, one could exempt from
the levy the first 40,000 kg^^aU^aeliveries (equal to thp..jverage
yield of 10 cows ). This j^ild^rcempt more than half of the"Community 's ••••
milk producers, but onNrawy^17% of the total milk deli'ver«?e*s. Such
a measure would have^l^fmilfar effect to that Of a direct feujtflne aid to small producers bul^mOlrt the administrative difficulties..iJtherent in
any system of directjnds. *: «••
(b) Supplementar%3?eyy. In order to discourage excessive increases in ■–■■ ■""11Æ*1
product^n, a^nissuasive levy should be applied to additional milk delivj^iesJr Only an additional levy of this type, rather than a linear
leyf, ca^rbe really effective in controlling excessive prpduction. mrt tws following choices have to be made:
ptethod of calculation. Should the rate of levy be calculated according to the marginal cost of disposal (normally the export
restitution) so that the cost of additional production is completely covered without additional cost to the Community budget?
Method of application*": 'the: lfcvy "be applied simply at the / ■ • I• ♦♦•••*•• * /
,levelofthedairies,2feaVIng"*tH£&ft*odecidehowtopassitonto / individual producers, as the Commission has suggested in its earlier /
proposalsforasupplementarylevy? Orshouldit"beapplied^&t
level of the individual farms , with the dairies acting as our /
/ administrative agents ? The former approach has met with strong
/./ opposition within the Council , but the latter would also entail
serious difficulties of administration and equity (probleij/of /
calculating reference quantities for each farm, problem/of young
farmers wishing to enter milk production, consolidaticon of existing /
structures of milk production to the advantage of .those producers who have already attained a higher degree'of efficiency.)
Progressive rate. Should the levy apply at a uniform rate of x% S/
on all additional milk, as the^Commission has suggested in its earlier proposals, orataprogressiverate'morefavourabletosmallproducers. A progressive element coul^beintroduced, for example, Tp'y'^pplying
a rate of y> on the fir^T lOflOOO kg of additional milk, arrate of x>
on the next 10,000 k^fanOfo on.
Special levy for intensive production. Should there be:.a "further element of dissuasion for additional milk delivered by fpryr^; with an animal density jof more than 3 cows per forage hectare ?
Production of beef in the Community in 1980 was 7.2 million tonnes, eithe-r M from specialised beef herds or more often from herds producing milk. -j Exports were 640,000 tonnes and imports 343/000'tonnes. AW jy
Production has increased at an annual average rate of 2.4% in thj^97Qj^> while
consumption per head has grown at an average rate of only 1.7^|(P For the coming years it is estimated that production may increase bar! . 5jr 2.0%, while
consumption which is strongly influenced^ by growth in irarome^may increase at about 0.7%. In the absence of adjustments in our Jolicynn this sector,
it is clear that there may be a growing imbalance ba€weeQ|(Cupply and demand.
As regards external trade, certain adjustmea^^^yTd be envisaged in the import arrangements so as to ensure a moj^eTrSrtiye
application of Community preference. export market, the Community has
had considerable success in expandin^lts^hare of world exports from, 10% to 25%,
but this is due in part to reduction ij^exports by other suppliers iKjch have been
affected by cyclical factors; ^dnraw^Temand for beef is geared to fVCinomic growth, the prospects for exj^andiog our beef exports at more remunerative prices
are not good. The Commjdmwpra therefore likely to remain a net?-«xkorter of beef at about the saffie le^el as at present .
The CommunityV^obiflCtive should be to discourage any increase in the gap between beajjrproilction and consumption: in other words, action should be taken
to ensurj^hafcprthe average production increase does not exceed the consumption increase. Jr.
Iffis wpll require a prudent price policy, since there is a risk that further prifie increases will deflect consumption to other meats, as well as increasing the budgetary cost of our exports.
Producers should be confronted with the realities of the market, through
further adjustment of the intervention system (limitation, suspension of intervention during certain periods). The existing premium measures should be
 reviewed, so that they do no*t xensiji'tiCte: art "invitation to additional .. .. « •• ••
production for which there is no market.
The Community's regime for these products includes only limited measurars .
for support of market prices (export restitutions, and private stooge jjr for pigmeat). Past experience has shown that the market organisa^on self-regulating in the sense that prices operate to bring supo|jy andr demand into balance in the medium term, while action in the^rield^of trade and storage may be necessary to counter short-termj^uctuetions.
It would not therefore be appropriate to introduce ppoductf^n objectives or new measures of coresponsibi lity in these sector . jjr
A relative reduction in the price of cereals would ilive an important
effect in reducing costs for ourproducers ara.majpfng them more competitive
on the world market : we are already higt*^0»f^Tcient in these sectors
of production by world standards, and^/uflj&'yports of poultry, for
example, have already increased fron^ro^i^u0,000 tonnes in 1977-79 to about
300,000 tonnes in 1980. There ar^^Troj^cts for increasing our,sports in all these sectors if we pursuers r^Gonable management of our 'restitutions .
offset the decline in jonsum^ion in Italy and France.
Production of wine in the Community fluctuates greatly according to the sea«n : jjr the average production in the period 1970/71 to 1979/80 was 153 million b*ctoUrcre
with a trend increase of about 1.16%. Consumption (in the sense °fjprecJr human consumption, distillation without aids etc ) has been steadi lyjBecraffsing
at an annual average rate of 0.59% in the period 1970 - 80. Tha^fcalaprce between production and consumption has been made by distillation wifcn Community aid, which accounted for an average of 7 million hectolitryjnn l^fO - 80.
Imports in 1970 - 80 averaged about 5 million hectoli^^s an^Tare fairly
stable. Exports have increased from about 3 million hectolitres in 1970 to
8 million hectolitres in 1979/81. (including 2 miUnon hectolitres which benefited
from export restitutions ); but export marketyBre ^ finited by the fact that most importing countries are also producers.Jpjfifrure.
The Community has already taken a seri^r om^reasures to stabilise production
by limiting the area under vines, bu^at^^is stage it is difficulJVY© give a ••••
precise estimate of future produciwon^n the 1980s. The Commissipn**tias taken ••••
action and made recommendationjrto^#auce the level of taxation on.w.ine in
the Northern countries, andJrfMhf€e desirable changes are made, tfie^e would be increases in consumption nnprne Member States concerned which wd&Td help to
The Communityjp objj€tive should be to avoid any increase in the gap . between the trendsJn production and consumption.
As faQpTs production is concerned, measures have already been taken to limit thearereaJffnder vines, and indeed the wine sector is the only one where a ansciajnne of this kind is imposed on producers under the common agricultural policy. It is essential that these measures should be applied effectively . Ine structural measures for grubbing-up vineyards must also be pursued.
Distillation measures should also be improved, to ensure a more stable market and to discourage the production of high-yield low-quality wine.
There must be a reinforcement of control in the areas of production, MWVIpiVUVIWVI V
both to prevent frauds and to ensure better quality for the consum*
y for the consumer . Jr
Measures for this purpose have recently been submitted for approyval oiJT the Commission . JF A
shouUT redire As regards consumption, the member states concerned shou^ar redtj/re
taxation of wine. Consideration should also be given to ComijKJnmniitty
t^rnaLl jmnarket and encouragement for promotion of wine, both on the internalynarket
on the export market. • jf Jr
Production of wine in the Community fluctuates greatly according to the season: .jM
the average production in the period 1970/71 to 1979/80 was 153 million hj^o^Pre with a trend increase of about 1.16%. Consumption (in the sense of dwrectJ^
human consumption, distillation without aids etc) has been steadily^fecreasing
at an annual average rate of 0.59% in the period 1970 - 80. JheJBalaye between production and consumption has been made by distillation .ntJ^Community
aid, which accounted for an average of 7 million hectolitreynn 19iTO - 80.
Imports in 1970 - 80 averaged about 5 million hectolitn^s andrare fairly
stable. Exports have increased from about 3 miIli^rnect^litres in 1970 to
8 million hectolitres in 1979/81 (including 2 miUpon hectolitres which benefited from export restitutions ); but export markets\ jfre yfiited by the fact that
most importing countries are also producers
The Community has already taken a seri^^o^^easures to stabilise production
by limiting the area under vines, bid^itJmns stage it is difficult..^ give a
precise estimate of future produc^on the 1980s. The Commissitfff'has taken ••••
action and made recommendation^ffaijyffuce the level of taxation on•vine in
the Northern countries, and j^fthejfe desirable changes are made, would ■■A
be increases in consumpt i Qdr rn j/ne Member States concerned which vwuLfi help to offset the decline in c^nsumo/Mon in Italy and France.
The Community"jpobjactive should be to avoid any increase in the gap between the trends or Dro^Cction and consumption.
As fanps prwauction is concerned, measures have already been taken to limit
the^#reajjnder vines, and indeed the wine sector is the only one where a
cUCcip^ne of this kind is imposed on producers under the common agricultural 'pol^^. It is essential that these measures shoutd be applied effectively.
Va& structural measures for grubbing-up vineyards must also be pursued.
Distillation measures should also be improved, to ensure a more stable market and to discourage the production of high-yield low-quality wine.
The analysis of measures necessary in this Jr
sector is particularly complicated
of products concerned, JF Jr
because of the diversify Examination is continuing within the seiKaces/^
