thap. 101
Produits hors annexe II
MUC 4.641 M 5.037 It 6.214
1976 M 7.993 1977 It 8.483
forami ssions SSï lyorscrtUM ssa
Informations– und Innovations–
EINZELPLAN III INSGESAMT (Wh.) KOMMISSION INSGESAMT
INTEFÍVENTIONJMITTEL FflR DIE BEREICHE ENERGIE , INDUSTRIE TECH.TOLOCIE, FORSCHUNG, 0BKH- WACHUNG TER SICHERHEIT , WISSEN- SCHAFTLICHE UND TECHNISCHE INFORMATION OND VERKEHR
Directorates-General and departments consulted
The Directorates-General and departments were consulted by the Directorate- General for Budgets during hearings (l).
(l) The figures appearing in the various documents are those adopted by the Directorate-General for Budgets, in virtually every case in agreement
with the Directorates-General and departments concerned after discussion* Where opinions differed, the views of both DG XIX and the DG or department concerned are given in Part B of Document I to enable the Commission to take a decision*
The Commission will also be receiving a paper on the "Three-year Financial Estimates. 1982-83-84".
The memorandum on the 1982 estimates comprises three documents:
PART A - Draft estimates for the Commission: nomenclature 9
1 . Changes in nomenclature for the statement of 11 expenditure
2. Changes in nomenclature for the statement of revenue 13 Annex I: Outline of new budget nomenclature 15
PART B - Draft estimates for the Commission: contents 29
1. Points on which the Commission is formally requested 31 to take a decision
2. Points to which the Commission's attention is 69 specifically drawn
3. Proposals for decisions and procedural arrangements 83
Policy-by-policy introduction to the budget
Budget proposals for 1982 in figures
Information concerning each "budget heading for 1982 which, together with Part C of Document I, will form Volume ^ of the Preliminary Draft Budget for 1982 (Thesaurus)
Breakdown of I98I and 1982 appropriations for each budget heading, showing whether they are compulsory or non-compulsory.
On 2 February 1981 the Directorate-General for Budgets addressed the customary budget circular to the Directorates-General and departments.
On the basis of replies received hearings were held between 2 and 31 March between the Director-General for Budgets and the other Directors-General and Heads of Department (or, on occasion, their representatives). Many
of these hearings were preceded or followed by meetings or contacts between the budget rapporteurs of DG XIX and their correspondents in the spending departments. In most cases agreement was reached with the departments concerned .
Besides presenting the statement of estimates as a whole, I have a number of points for the Commission to oonsider:
They fall into three groups:
1. Points on which the Commission is formally requested to take a decision: These are :
- the proposal concerning the amendment of the budget nomenclature (Part A);
- matters where there is still some disagreement or where a clear decision is needed because of the amounts involved or because the proposals are new (Part B.l).
2. The points to which the Commission's attention is speoially drawn but which in principle call for no special deliberation (Part B.2).
3. The package of decisions to enable the preliminary draft budget to be finalized and transmitted to the budgetary authority (Part B.3).
PART A - Draft estimates for the Commission
Changes in nomenclature
1. Changes in nomenclature for the statement of expenditure
The present budget nomenclature is unsatisfactory, mainly for the following three reasons :
(i) Firstly, the sequenoe of the nomenclature is largely the result of
the creation and addition of new headings over the years, while nothing has been done to put them into an altogether rational and homogeneous order* The present nomenclature is, in a manner of speaking, the historical product of many years of budget work during which headings have accumulated without ever being properly arranged according to clear technical or policy criteria.
(ii) Secondly, and this is certainly the most important aspect, there is
room for a substantial improvement in transparency. It is , of essential that the budget be constructed in such a way that the financial cost of the various policies can be seen at a glance. aim of this proposal is therefore to ensure some kind of direct correspondence between the structure of the budget and the main Community policies.
course , The
(iii) Thirdly, in view of the expansion of operating appropriations in the budget, the scope offered by the present nomenclature is now much too narrow .
Conscious of the frequent comments from the European Parliament and the fact that Parliament may well step in if the Commission does not aot quickly,
we have in reoent years become increasingly aware of the need to produce a better presentation of the budgetary nomenclature.
I therefore feel that the Preliminary Draft Budget for 1982 is a suitable opportunity for proposing the following changes:
- the present Section III will henceforth be reserved exclusively for the Commission's administrative appropriations (Titles 1 and 2), which also means that it will match the sections of the other institutions;
- a new Section VI will be created solely for the operations side of activities, i.e. appropriations for implementing the various policies.
In this new section the basic aim of the nomenclature will be to ensure that appropriations can be immediately identified with policies. The rearrangement will help to show what each individual policy actually costs.
This nomenclature will be a definite improvement in both the technical and the political presentation of the budgetf which should make it easier for both the budgetary authority and the public to grasp*
I also feel that the Commission must take the initiative in the matter* It is within its powers of initiative to make the proposal; in this way it is playing its role to the full and will forestall the danger of such a revision being imposed from outside , by Parliament , for instance , in a future budgetary procedure*
Annex I outlines - down to chapter level - the main implications of this revision. The following points should be emphasized:
(a) the new nomenclature rearranges chapters so that the budget structure coincides with the main Community policies;
(b) the chapters constitute the basic -unit for designating the "policy area" of the budget appropriations;
(c) with the new Section VI for operating appropriations, the contents of the budget can be spread over nine titles (from Title 1 to Title 9» Title 10 being used solely for reserve appropriations) instead of only the seven presently available (Title 3 to Title 9) (l)»
This new structure thus offers more space, which may prove very useful, and indeed absolutely necessary, for presenting Community policies in future*
This proposal will entail some minor amendments to the Financial Regulation in order to provide for the creation of Section VI and to perait any transfers that might be necessary between Sections III and VI, so that none of the existing flexibility is lost* The appropriate proposal will be submitted together with the 1982 Preliminary Draft.
Lastly, over and above the general rearrangement at title and chapter level, some amendments are also required, as is the case each year, within the chapters, i.e. in the breakdown into articles and items.
( l ) At the moment , the number of chapters available - less Title 10 ( for reserves) - is 70, of which 60 are used. Under the attached proposal the number of chapters will be 90 (of which 64 are used).
The whole of the new nomenclature down to item level is set out in Document III of these 1982 estimates.
2. Changes in nomenclature for the statement of revenue
A dominant feature of the existing nomenclature is the heavy use made of Title 9 for revenue of all sortsf whereas Titles 2, 3, 4 and 5 contain few entries and Titles 6, 7 and 8 are not used at all. The explanation of this is that various sources of revenue have been created over the years and fitted into the present structure.
In the proposal for revision we are suggesting a rational and homogeneous presentation. Certain entries have been shifted to other titles according to their nature. Other entries have been grouped together so as to bring out more clearly that they are of a similar nature and, following an analysis of Article 999 (Miscellaneous revenue ), a few additional entries have been proposed in order to improve transparency.
There is a new title "Other Community charges, taxes, levies and dues". Even though it has only three chapters, it must be included because of its
specific nature; it is also possible that other charges or taxes will be added in the future .
A new title "Revenue accruing from the administrative operation of the institution" has also been created to cover revenue from rentals, bank interest, etc.
The revenue in connection with budgetary expenditure, classified under the present nomenclature mainly in Chapters 92 and 93, has been regrouped under a new title "Contributions to Community programmes, reimbursement of expenditure and revenue for services rendered against payment", broken down into three chapters .
The ECSC levies and the financial contributions by Member States to the Euratom complementary programmes are also entered under that title . The
complementary programmes are no longer entered under the title for financial contributions because they correspond to contributions earmarked for a specific purpose; they differ from the GBP financial contributions, which are to finance all Community expenditure.
A separate title has been inserted for penalties, i.e. interest on late payments and fines.
Lastly, all the items relating to borrowing and lending operations are now under one title , split into two chapters ; the first covers any revenue which may accrue if the Community guarantee is implemented and the second records interest accruing and repayments of capital from loams granted by the Commission out Gf its own funds .
No amendments to the Financial Regulation are needed to implement this revision of the nomenclature for the statement of revenue .
Annex III attached outlines the implications of the revision.
Members of the institution Staff
Allowances and expenses on entering and leaving the service and on transfer
Missions and duty travel
Infrastructure and socio-medical costs chargeable to the institution
Graduate traineeships and further training of staff
Entertainment and representation expenses
Investments in immovable property, rental of buildings and associated costs
Movable property and associated costs
Current administrative expenditure Formal and other meetings Studies, surveys and consultations
Publishing and information
Subsidies for balancing budgets
Subsidies and financial contributions
OTHER EXPENDITURE Provisional appropriations
New chapter combining old Articles 142, I43 and 144
New chapter combining old Articles I40, I4I and 149
Old Chapter 26, less Articles 263, 265 and 266
conversion rates obtaining at the time of implementation
I Chap. 102 Reserve to cover any shortfall in Chap. 102 appropriations converted into
national currencies resulting from the difference between the ECU conversion rates used when the
β budget is drawn up and the
Eggs and poultrymeat
Refunds on certain goods obtained by processing agricultural products
Refunds in connection with Community food aid
Chap. 60 and 6l
Chap . 73 and 72
Less Items 6001, 6002, 6012f 6101 and 6102
Less Items 6401, 6402 and 64IO
Less Articles 632, 633» 634 and 635
Less Artioles 731, 737 and 73? (part)
Less Articles 730, 733, 734» 736, 737 and 739 (part)
Less Items 6201, 6202, 6203 and 6204
Cereals and rice
Sugar and Olive oil
Oilseeds and
Textile plants and silkworms
Fruit and vegetables Wine
Other sectors or products
to common organization of the market
Milk and milk
Beef and veal
Sheepmeat and goatmeat
Chap . 74 and
Accession compensatory amounts granted in intra-Community trade
Monetary compensatory amounts levied or paid in trade in agricultural products
Provisional appropriations for the 2AGGF Guarantee Section
Common organization of the market in fishery products
Specific measures in the fisheries and marine sector
Less Chapters 80t 81, 82 and 83
This chapter appears at the beginning of this title to ensure continuity with the Guarantee Seotion (see above)
This chapter appears at the end of this title to ensure
continuity with the Guidance ! Section (see below)
Less Chapters 86, 87 and 88 Less Article 802
Community responsibility for certain Chap. 89 financial obligations arising from
agreements on fishing rights in
non-Community waters
Measures to improve fisheries structures : measures to adjust and redeploy capacity
Measures to improve fisheries structures : common measures
Chap. 40 Projects for the improvement of agricultural structures
General socio–structured measures
Chap. 42 Measures to assist less-favoured regions
Structural measures oonnected with the common organization of markets
Art. 266 and 561
European Regional Development Fund Community action in support of national regional policies
European Regional Development Fund specific Community measures
Measures to reduce economic disparities in the Community in
the context of the European Monetary System
Interest rate subsidies on Community loans to the less
prosperous Member States participating in the European Monetary System
Supplementary measures in favour of the United Kingdom
Other regional policy expenditure
Expenditure under Article 4 of the Council Decision of
1 February 1971
Expenditure Tinder Article 5 of the Council Decision of 1 February 1971
Pilot schemes and preparatory studies
Less Chapters 55t 56, 57 and 58
Contribution to the ECSC for social measures in connection with the restructuring of the steel industry
Protection of the environment and consumers
Cultural action and the European Foundation
Training of national inspectors
Aid to disaster victime in the Community
General and preparatory projects in the field of scientific
research and technology
Research and investment Information market and innovation
Less Articiee 351» 354 aad 355 Still available
protection and
Industry and the internal market
Expenditure resulting from "borrowing and lending operations in the energy sector
Plat-rate repayment to the Member States of costs incurred in
Application of the financial mechanism pursuant to the Council Decisions of
17 May 1976 and 27 October I98O
Financial compensation to Member States which are not effectively and fully participating in the European Monetary System
Expenditure resulting from implementation of the guarantee for Community loans raised for the purpose of giving balance of payments support
Expenditure resulting from implementation of the guarantee for loans raised to promote investment in the Community
Exchange losses and deficit carried over from previous year
Other repayments
Chap. 37 and
Art. 378 and 379
Less Articles 378 and 379
Reserved for inclusion of the EDP in the budget
| ihxropean Development Pond – ..Generation with the ACP States
i<:uropean Development Fund - cooperation with the OCT associated with the Community
Cooperation with non-associated developing countries
Specific measures for cooperation with developing countries
ricceptional measures to assist developing and other non-member countries
Cooperation with Mediterranean countries
Cooperation in the field of commodities
Cooperation with non-member countries
Provisional appropriations
Reserve to cover any shortfall in
appropriations converted into national currencies resulting from the difference between the ECU conversion rates used when the budget is drawn up and the conversion rates obtaining at the time of implementation
Portion of proceeds of ECSC levies paid pursuant to Article 20 of the "reaty of 8 April 1965
Deductions from staff remuneration
(Old Title 5 amended)
Other Community charges, taxes, levies and dues
(Old Title 4 amended)
Revenue accruing from the administrative operation of the institutions
Contributions to Community programmes, reimbursement of expenditure and revenue for services rendered against payment
Interest on late payments and fines (New)
Borrowing and lending operations (New)
(Old Title 9 amended)
PART B – Draft estimates for the Commission: contents
Points on which the Commission is formally requested to take a decision
SECTIONVI-COMMISSION (Operatingappropriations) EAGGF Guarantee Section
1.1 Volume of appropriations 33
1.2 The question of a reserve 35
1.3 Transfer of certain appropriations to other titles 36
1.4 Possible entry of milk co-responsibility levy as revenue 39
1.6 Financial mechanism and supplementary measures 42-43
1.7 Compensation to Greece 44
1.8 Volume of appropriations 45 1.9 Measures for women 47 1.10 Consequences of industrial conversion 48 1.11 Steelindustry-socialmeasures 49
1.12 Encouragement for energy investment 50 1.13 FinancingofthesystemofCommunityaidforcokingcoal 51 1.14 Research and investment appropriations - indirect 52
1.15 Information market and innovation 54
1.16 Community operations for the development of data 55 processing
1.17 New information technology 56 1.18 Transport policy 57 1.19 CooperationwithMediterraneancountries 58 1.20 Cooperation in the field of commodities - Common Fund 59
SECTION III – COMMISSION (Staff and administrative appropriations)
1.27 Other subsidies 68
1.22 Radio, télévision and film studio
1.23 Creation of Commission delegations in non-member countries
1.24 Construction of new buildings - Brussels. Tokyo and Ispra 63 1.25 Computer centre 66 1.26 Disseminationofinformationandparticipationinpublic 67
 EAOQF Guarantee Section (Titles 1 and 2) 1.1 VOLUME QP APPROPRIATIONS
The estimates for the EAGQF Guarantee Section for 19°2 are based on the decisions on prices aad related measures for the 1981/82 marketing year adopted "by the Council om 1 April 1981 .
Total appropriations amount to 13*933 million ECU, of which 140 million ECU are on the assumption that the aid to promote hatter consumption will be continued for 1982/83.
The table on the following page gives, in the new order of titles and chapters, the appropriations for 1980, 1981 and 1982 and the yeai>-on-year changes. It also compares the 1982 figures that would have resulted from the Commission's proposals with what will be produced by the Council*s decisions(l).
As is the usual practice estimates for 1982 are based on quantitative assumptions calculated from statistical trends; rates for refunds and other forms of aid
linked to non-Community markets reflect oautious assesnents of world price levels.
Agricultural projections this far ahead will obviously have to be adjusted during the budgetary procedure as cyolioal variations come to contradict the initial assumptions. The 1982 figures, as they stand at present, are based on well-founded hypotheses.
It is proposed that total appropriations for the EAGGP Guarantee Section be set at 13.933 million ECU.
(1) The Commission estimated that the Council's prioe deoisions as ocmpared with its initial proposal will oost an extra 252 million ECU over twelve months. The extra oost for 1982 should be around 500 million ECU; the
main determining factor here will be the boost to production resulting from the Council decision.
Cereals and rice
Oilseeds and protein plants
Textile plants and silkworms
fruit and vegetables
Otf^r sectors or products TITLE 1 - TOTAL
"Ilk and milk products 20
( including co-responsibility 1 evi es)
Co-responsibility levy
resDonsibi1ity levies) 21
Beef and veal
Sheep- and goatmeat
Pi graeat 23 Eggs and poul trymeat 24
Non-Annex II products Food aid refunds
.lonetary compensatory 28 arcoun ts
Reserve for EAGGI" Guarantee 29 Section
Including 13f) million ECU set aside in Chapter 100 for special measures for absorbing surpluses of butterfats, Including 60 million ECU set aside In Chapter 100 for export refunds on certain cereal-based spirits. including a reserve of 140 million ECU - to be entered In Chapter 100 - for the continuation of the aid to
promote butter consumption.
These figures may be amended slightly following consultations with the Member States within the Fund Committee.
In the 1981 Budget the budgetary authority- created a new Chapter 79 entitled "Provisional appropriations for the EAGGF Guarantee SeotionN, which it funded
"by taking 2$ of the appropriations allocated to eaoh "budget heading in Titles
6 and 7. In other words this was not a real reserve as the total Guarantee Section appropriations remained unchanged*
For the preliminary draft budget for ^^82 the Directorate-General for Agriculture proposes the inclusion in Chapter 29 (former Chapter 79) of overall reserve
of 56O million ECU (1) to cover prioe increases for the 1982/83 marketing year(2). DG VI*s intention is to establish a non-elastic allocation for the KAGGF Guarantee Seotion in order to show what margin is available for the other Community policies.
In 1974 the Commission made moves to introduce a similar reserve, primarily on the grounds that it represented a means of avoiding reoourse to a supplementary budget. The Council rejeoted the idea, arguing that it was better for this type of agricultural expenditure to be adjusted during the year if necessary.
DG XIX can see the need for a "reserve margin" for the EAOSF Guarantee Section
and feels that the question of a safety margin could well arise in other areas
as well(3). However, the creation of a specific reserve within the EAGGF Guarantee Section is not the only answer. Technically, two other alternatives exist:
(i) The first is to include the amount considered necessaxy to oover the price decisions for 1982/83 in Chapter 101, (Contingency reserve) or in a new Chapter 103 (General reserve), if necessary as part of a larger reserve margin determined by the gap between total own resources available and estimated appropriations specifioally anticipated for 1982}
(ii) the second is to allow a general safety margin between total appropriations proposed and the own resouroes ceiling, but without entering it in the budget as was done last year.
(1) Mount calculated on the assumption that the 1982/83 price adjustment will
be based on the rate of inflation used for establishing the budget, namely 8 f Gfom
(2) In fact, DG VI also suggests inoluding in Chapter 29 the 140 million ECU to cover continuation of the aid to promote butter consumption. 1X1 XIX feels -that this should be entered in Chapter 100.
(3) It should be pointed out that, in the case of the 1981 budget, the Commission felt that the extra cost resulting from the 1981/82 prioe deoisions should
be recouped by means of economy measures.
After due consideration it is felt that preference should go to the latter formula, as there is a danger that any other solution might he interpreted as a premature political comment on the prloe decisions for 1982/83* Another argument in its
favour is that it avoids giving the impression that the funds allocated to the other polioies are what are left over from the common agricultural policy.
It is therefore proposed that the Commission adopt the formula of providing for
a safety margin outside the budget, making it dear to the budgetary authority
that this is designed primarily to oover the as yet unnpiaatifiable implications
of the 1982/83 fans prioes; as an indication, reference could he made to the
impact of the agricultural decisions for 1981/82 on the current budget (approximately 380 million ECU).
(a) Appropriations other than food aid refunds
The Community is bound by certain international agreements to open up its markets fairly extensively to non-member countries. The most obvious examples are sugar and butter.
The Community, which produces more sugar than it can consume, has to import approximately 1,3 million tonnes from the ACP States and India each year; the corresponding tonnage then has to be re-exported at an estimated direct cost of 230 million ECU for 1982.
Similarly, the Community imports approximately 100.000 tonnes of butter per year from New Zealand into an already surplus interned market at a direct oost of
150 million ECU for 1982.
DO VI suggests that these appropriations, which are not generated by the CAP as such, should be off-loaded from the Guarantee Seotion budget and transferred to other titles. This would involve a total of 380 million ECU in 1982.
The problem of removing from the Guarantee Section appropriations which do not derive from the CAP is not new; nor is it restrioted to the two cases referred
to above. Under a variety of preferential trade agreements the Community also imports substantial quantities of beef (approximately 400.000 tonnes per year), some from developing countries. These imports also represent a strain on the balance of this particular market, on whioh the Community went into surplus in 1980. Moreover, the Community practice of imposing low customs duties or none
at all on certain imports frequently triggers off a significant rise in expenditure
' for competing Community products (imports of oils and fats, oereal substitutes, oilseeds, and so on).
The above examples show that this problem ia rot restricted to ACP mg&r and
Hew Zealand butter, although it is on these two products, particularly the second, that manor Members of the European Parliament have concentrated most.
In theory one solution would be to oaloulate all the budgetary oosts currently charged to the Guarantee Section whioh are not generated principally by the CAP ftnH to enter them tuader an ad hoo title.
This approach would undoubtedly pose numerous problems of political ohoice for the Commission (the MCAS are but one example) and could well result in the consequences of the commercial policy - notably the preferential arrangements - being entered in the budget.
It must be stressed that, in addition to being difficult to assess, the direct
cost to the EAGGF Guidance Section of the special trade concessions is only one
side of the coin; in return for the commercial concessions it grants - preferential and non-preferential (GATT) alike - the Coranunity generally derives certain benefits (often for the CAP), the value of whioh must be set against the direct cost referred to above. It is practically impossible to quantify these benefits in budgetary
This solution would also be technically complicated when it came to assessing and administering the appropriations concerned (how to isolate, for example, Hew Zealand butter or ACP sugar from the other milk products and sugar exported or disposed of on the internal market).
It would also be neoessary to take account of the impact cf these international agreements on own resources.
While DG XIX is fully aware of the problems caused by charging appropriations to the CAP which are in fact largely the product of other Community policies, it feels that, in view of the difficulties outlined above, these appropriations should remain in the EAGGF-Guarantee Section titles of the budget. However, it would be
in favour of discussing the appropriations in question, or at least the most important ones in budgetary terms, in an ad hoo chapter of Volume 7 of the preliminary draft, in such a way as to bring out clearly their special nature and to give an estimate of their impact on budgetary expenditure and revenue. The budget itself would include an appropriate remark; on the matter and the amounts involved, as well as referring to the countervailing benefits pointed out above.
In view of the difficulty of assessing the real oost of certain trade concessions,
the administrative problems involved in transferring and administering the expenditure in question and the negative attitude adopted by the Council, it is proposed that
the Commission keep the appropriation within the EA3GF* Guarantee Section; it should provide as muoh background information as possible both in the policy-by-policy introduction and in the remarks column of the budget .
The budgetary authority has always entered food aid refunds in Title 6 of the budget. However, the Commission has twioe proposed that these appropriations be enteredinChapter92(Foodaid): thefirstoooasionwasinthepreliminarydraft for 1978 and the second in the preliminary draft for 1980 .
The Council has always rejected these proposals by a majority vote, while Parliament's position has varied over the years.
When the budget nomenclature was being revised, 10 XIXf while waiting to hear the final decision of the HQs concerned, set aside a special chapter in the new Title 2 (Chapter 26) to bring together all food aid refunds which were allotted to the various chapters concerned (cereals, rice, milk and milk products, sugar, beef and veal) in the 1981 budget and in previous budgets.
The DCs concerned expressed their views at the hearings.
DO VI has no strong views either way but would prefer these appropriations to be retained within the EAGGF Guarantee Section.
By contrast, DG VIII considers that these refunds must be included in Title 9» for two reasons: firstly, entering the refunds in that title would reveal the actual cost of food aid programmes, which are an indivisible whole, the programmes being independent and unconnected with considerations of disposal of agricultural surpluses. Secondly, in oonjunotion with amendments to two regulations, it would provide a legal equivalence between refunds and food aid.
At present, food aid refunds are covered by the provisions of the Financial Regulation relating to the EAGGF Guarantee Section, whereas food aid is subject to its own speoifio provisions in the Finanoial Regulation.
This leads to troublesome inconsistencies. For example, once appropriations in Chapter 92 have been committed, they are automatically oarried over to the next financial year, whereas appropriations relating to refunds have to undergo the cumbersome procedure for non-automatic carryovers, otherwise they lapse.
DG XIX considers that entry in Title 9 would be justified in partioular to remedy the present lack of parallelism between the two aspeots of the food aid programmes.
But to ensure this parallelism, it is not enough merely to enter the refunds in Title 9 : the relevant regulations must also be amended. These amendments concern Artiole 2(1 ) of Council Regulation 2681/ 74 and Article 6(1) of Council Regulation 1703/72.
However, pending these amendments to the regulations and in view of the Council's negative attitude in this matter, it is proposed that the Commission should not amend current praotice for the 19S2 budget, bat that all food aid refunds be brought together in a special chapter of the RMidF Guarantee Section.
The revenue obtained from the milk levy oaimot at present be regarded as own resources since it does not fall within the scope of Article 2(a) of the Decision
of 21 April 1970, which refers only to levies and customs duties imposed on trade with non-member countries and levies for sugar. These taxes could only be regarded as own resources and entered in the budget of the Communities as such if the abovementioned Decision of 21 April 1970 were amended, which would involve the procedure laid down in Article 201 of the EEC Treaty and in particular ratification by national parliaments.
Regulation Ho 1079/77 of 17 May 1977 relating to the co-responsibility levy in the milk and milk products sector specifies that this levy is to be considered as an operation to stabilize agricultural markets. The Commission has accordingly entered revenue from this levy as negative expenditure in the budget. But in fact it is a genuine item of revenue used to finance measures to rationalize the milk sector.
Consequently, it could be entered in tbe budget as revenue earmarked for the stabilization of the milk market.
Many Members of the European Parliament advocate this course ; indeed the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgetary Control for the 1979 disoharge oalls for it specifically in his draft report.
The Court of Auditors also criticized current praotice in its annual report on
the 1979 financial year: "the principal outcome of these practices is to understate the real expenditure of the EAOGF Guarantee Section for a given financial year and make it practically impossible to draw up a full account thereof**.
DG VI considers that the time is not yet ripe to start entering this item as revenue. It feels that this matter should be settled as part of an overall review of the
own resources system.
Although there are powerful arguments in favour of entering the milk co-responsibility levy as revenue, it is perhaps preferable not to change the presentation in the
1982 budget. This point is referred to the Commission for a decision.
1.5 REGIONAL FUND (Chapters 50 and 51) ( a ) Appropriations for commitment
1X3 XVI proposes an increase of 36t4% in nominal terms, i.e. a real increase of 25 Given the current economic outlook and allowing for the effeots of the aooession of new Member States, it considers this increase necessary in order to achieve greater convergence between the economies of Member States .
DG XIX proposes an inorease of about 25$ in nominal terms; it oonsiders this a significant increase in view of the current budgetary situation.
The Regional Fund would thus rise from 1*540 million ECU to 1.940 million ECU (2.100 million BCU under DO XVI's proposal).
(b ) Appropriations for payment
Payments deriving automatically from commitments entered into before
the beginning of the financial year. On the basis of the appropriations entered in the 1981 budget, total amounts committed by 1 January 1982
and still awaiting payment can be expected to be about 2.450 million ECU. This figure includes 372 million BCU for payments which, on current estimates, ought normally to have been made in 1931. If the necessary appropriations for payment cannot be made available in 1961 by sane appropriate budgetary means, the ERDF would be unable to honour
duly established claims for payments and would to all intents and purposes be insolvent.
If the rate that applies for the remaining 2.081 million ECU is
similar to that for I98O (40$) the total volume of payment appropriations required to meet commitments outstanding at the beginning of the finanoial year will be 1.177 million ECU.
 Payments deriving from commitments to be entered into In 1982. Under the DO XIX proposal new appropriations for commitment will rise from 1.540 million ECU in 1981 to 1.940 million ECU in 1982. The estimates for 1982 start from the assumption that payments made in 1982 against commitments entered into that year will be at a rate comparable to that for 1980 (almost 24$). The amount required thus works out at 455 million ECU.
Total requirements in appropriations for payment in 1982. Appropriations for payment required by the ERDF for 1982 will total
1.177 + 455 - 1.632 million ECU} this is an increase of 163,6# over the 1981 budget (619,2 million ECU).
After further work, DG XVI felt that it would be prudent at this
stage to reduce the additional amount to be financed in I98I from
372 million ECU to 250 million ECU and that without making any special
allowance for the financing of the 122 million ECU deduoted the total figure
for payment appropriations for 1982 produced by strict application
of the rates of settlement observed in the past, should be reduoed overall to 1.120 million ECU.
DO XIX would point out that, irrespective of such a reduction, the figure of 1.632 million ECU given above would oome down to
1.335 million ECU (2.450 - 250 - 2.200 x 40# - 880 million ECU plus the 455 million ECU for commitments made in 1982).
It is proposed that the Commission set the Regional Fund's commitment appropriations for 1982 at 1*940 million ECU (z).
There are three main options as regards appropriations for payment.
The maximum figure - arrived at by applying the rates observed in
the past and assuming that there will be no supplementary appropriations
in the 1981 budget - is 1.632 million ECU. If 250 million ECU (the
level to which DO XVI oonsiders it prudent to reduce the figure of
372 million ECU) were charged to the 1981 budget, the appropriations
for payment required for 1982 would fall to 1.335 million ECU; this
is the figure 1X1 XIX would prefer. DO XVI, on the other hand, is
prepared to make an arbitrary reduction and would acoept 1.120 million ECU.
(2) Pursuant to the current rules, 5% of this is for the non-quota section.
The conclusions adopted by the Counoil on 30 Kay 1980 regarding convergence and Community measures to assist the United Kingdom entail three different budget operations:
(i) payments to be made under the adjusted financial mechanisms;
(ii) payments in the form of supplementary measures;
(iii) compensation to Oreece to offset its share in the financing of payments to the United Kingdom*
In the Counoil*s conclusions of 30 May 1980 it was envisaged that the United Kingdom's net contribution to the 1981 budget would be 2*140 million ECU. The appropriations entered in these draft estimates are calculated on the basis of that amount* The conclusions provided for measures designed to reduoe the United Kingdom's contribution by 1.410 million ECU. The provisional
gross reduction, taking into aooount the compensation to the
United Kingdom for its share in the financing of the measures and the advances to be made in 1981, is 1*732,4 million ECU (see 2.1l).
The Council oonolusions of 30 May I98O made it necessary to amend Council Regulation No H72/76 of 17 May 1976; this was done in Council Regulation No 2743/80 of 27 October 1980. The Regulation
states that on a reasoned application from a Member State, submitted
not later than 30 June, the Commission will
situation , having established , on the basis
that certain conditions (set out in Artiole
and will , if necessary , enter in the preliminary draft budget for the year following the year in which the Member State's application was made an appropriation equal to the provisional amount of the payment.
The estimates currently available indicate that the United Kingdom will not satisfy the condition set out in Artiole 2(c). The estimate of its payments entered in the 1981 budget will not exceed by more than 10$ the amount it would have to pay if the budget were finanoed by the Member States on the basis of their relative GDP. The excess will be only 6,3$.
In these circumstances and on the assumption that the United Kingdom submits its application by the date set, a token entry has been made in these draft estimates.
If new estimates of own resources for I98I , in particular taking account of the agri-monetary situation and the Council Decisions of 1 April I98I on fans prices for 1981/82, are entered in an amending or supplementary budget, the question of whether the financial mechanism may be applied will be reconsidered and, if necessary, an appropriation will be entered in a letter of amendment to the Preliminary Draft Budget for 1982.
assess the facts of the
of provisional data,
2) are met simultaneously,
Supplementary measures (Chapter 53)
Council Regulation No 2744/80 of 27 October 1980 sets out the supplementary measures envisaged in the conclusions of 30 May 1980.
Article 5 stipulates that the amount of the supplementary measures shall he calculated with account taken of the amounts resulting from application of the finanoial mechanism. As a token entry is
made for the financial mechanism, the total amount for measures to assist the United Kingdom, estimated at 1.73294 million ECU, must he covered by the supplementary measures* Any changes necessary will he made in a letter of amendment (see previous paragraph).
This amount may he reduced in the light of the following factors:
The appropriations entered in the 1981 budget do not take into
account the advances made in 1980 by means of the "open transfer"
of appropriations worth 73,8 million ECU; in the Preliminary Draft Supplementary and Amending Budget No 1 for 1980 the Commission stated that it would make the necessary proposals to adjust the appropriations entered in the I98I budget onoe the final amount of advances made in 1980 was known.
The Commission will therefore in due coarse have to make a proposal to reduce the 1981 appropriations by 73,8 million ECU in respeot of
1980. However, the Commission could also propose that the appropriations for advances for 1981 he increased by the same amount. In that case
the appropriations available for advances for 1981 would be
173,8 million BCU, instead of 100 million ECU, while expenditure
for 1982 would be reduced by 73,8 million HSU, bringing appropriations
to be entered in 1982 down from 1.732,4 million BCU to 1.658,6 million BCU.
It is proposed that the Commission deoide in an amending budget for 1981 to use the appropriation of 73,8 million ECU in Article 580 to
boost the advance on payments to be made in 1932, which currently stands at 100 million ECU, and to reduce the appropriations for supplementary measures to assist the United Kingdom entered in these draft estimates for 1982 by the same amount from 1*732,4 million ECU to 1.658,6 million ECU. Onoe the appropriations available in the amending budget for 1981 are finally known, the advances might even be further increased, so reducing expenditure in 1982 still lower.
In accordance with the Counoil conclusions of 30 May 1980 on
convergence and Community measures to assist the United Kingdom
the Council, on a proposal from the Commission, adopted Regulation (EEC)
No 284/81 (l), which provides for compensation to Oreece for its
share in financing such measures relating to 1980. No decision
has been taken on whether compensation is to "be paid in respect of the 1981 measures.
The Commission is requested to decide whether Greece should toe compensated for its contribution towards financing the 1981 measures to assist
the United Kingdom.
1.8 SOCIAL FUND - Volume of appropriations ( Chapters 60 and 62 )
(a) Appropriations for commitment
DO V proposes an increase of 55I8$ (from 9^3 to 1.500 million ECO). Its arguments are that the employment situation is still deteriorating and
the gap between the volume of applications and funds available has
widened, with only a small increase (less than 6%) in appropriations for commitment being granted from 1980 to 1981. DO XIX proposes that the
increase should be confined to 25$, the same as for the Regional Fund,
i.e. 1.200 million ECU. It considers that allowing for budgetary constraints, this rise would still constitute a realistic and meaningful response to increased needs .
(b) Appropriations for payment
Payments deriving automatically from commitments entered into before 1 January 1982
Commitments entered into before 1 January 1982, against which payments will still be due after that date, are estimated at 1.440 million ECU, much the same as on 1 January 1981. It may be noted that, unlike the situation
with the Regional Fund, and thanks to the adoption by Parliament of Supplementary Budget No 2/80, which made the necessary funds available in time, none of this figure is for payments which should normally have been made in 1981. In 1980, one third of commitments entered into before the beginning of the year were settled during the year, and there is no reason to suppose that the situation will be any different in 1982. The requirement for payment appropriations is therefore 480 million ECU.
Payments deriving from commitments to be entered into in 1982 Under
DG XIX's proposalf appropriations for new commitments will rise from 963 million ECU in 1981 to 1.200 million ECU.
It is assumed that, as in 1980, around one third of these commitments will be settled in 1982, meaning that some 420 million ECU will be required in payment appropriations.
Total requirements in payment appropriations for 1982 (c ■ a + b)
The total requirement in payment appropriations for 1982 for the Social Fund is therefore:
480 + 420 » 900 million ECU, i.e. an inorease of 45% over the 1981 Budget (620,4 million ECU).
It is proposed that the Commission decide to set commitment appropriations for the Social Fund for 1982 at 1.200 million ECU and payment appropriations at 900 million ECU.
In recent years this article has primarily benefited Germany, which is scarcelyacontributiontotheobjectiveofconvergence. Ashifttowards
a better balance is in progress but it would be compromised if appropriations in the article were to increase too rapidly, as Germany is the country
most likely to submit applications for assistance.
In 1981 the appropriation for commitment in this article is 22 million ECU* DGVisaskingfor75millionECUfor1982. DGXIXproposesamaximumof 28 million ECU, i.e. a rise of 27,3$ (average for the Social Fund: +25$).
It is proposed that the Commission set commitment appropriations for this article at 28 million ECU within the total allocation of 1.200 million ECU.
DG V proposes "that this heading be scrapped. It was entered in 1981 to provide for a new aid from the Sooial Fund, proposed fey the Commission on 25 July 1980 (C0M(80)410 final), which was intended to offset the loss of income suffered by elderly workers leaving the shipbuilding industry. The Council, meeting on 27 November 1980, turned the idea down flat, but in
its resolution of 19 December Parliament approved the Commissions proposal unre servedly .
Under these circumstances it seems preferable to keep our options open and retain this heading as a convenient slot for other types of assistance which
might be proposed in the future , perhaps in connection with the review of the Fund's rules in 1982.
It is therefore proposed that the Commission retain this heading in 1982, giving it a token entry.
The Commission still stands by its proposal (COM(80)676) that Community aid for steelworkers affected by early retirement and short-time working should be financed by a contribution to the ECSC from the general budget, to be entered in Chapter 65 (former Chapter 54)•
This proposal has the firm support of Parliament, but has run up against a
number of reservations from the Council concerning both its substance and
funding. If additional resources were to be made available, some
governments would prefer that it be done by means of ad hoc contributions to the ECSC.
In the I98I Budget, Chapter 54 carries a token entry. This was what the Commission had initially proposed, and was adopted by the Council after long discussions during the second reading, in face of a proposal from Parliament that a specific appropriation be entered. While negotiations continue with the Council, the Commission must maintain its proposals concerning the financing in the Preliminary Draft Budget for 1982.
It is proposed that the Commission retain a token entry in Chapter 65 (Speoial contribution to the ECSC for social measures in connection with the restructuring of the steel industry) .
Chapter 70 ( former Chapter 32 ) . appropriations would rise from 107.000 million ECU in 1981 to 112.800 million ECU in 1982 in appropriations for commitment and from 33.015 million ECU to
66.800 million ECU in appropriations for payment. The reason for the sharp rise in payment appropriations is that they were squeezed very tightly in 1981, which does not therefore represent a normal year.
DG XVII requested the entry of 50 million ECU (in non-differentiated appropriations) in Chapter 100 for encouraging energy investments by means of interest rate subsidies on loans granted by the various instruments available to the Community (EIB, NGI , ECSC ). Investments qualifying for this support would, generally speaking, be concerned with saving energy, using energy more efficiently and replacing oil by other sources of energy.
DG XIX feels that, since there is no legal basis (no proposal for a Council regulation has yet been submitted to the Commission) and in the general budgetary context, it is preferable not to enter appropriations at the present stage of the procedure; if necessary
(i.e. if matters progress satisfactorily), it would be possible later to submit a letter of amendment or a proposal for a supplementary budget to the budgetary authority.
It is proposed that the Commission, at the present stage of the procedure, should not enter appropriations in Chapter 100 for Article 705 (Encouragement for energy investment).
 1.13 Financing of the system of Community aid for coking ooal
The Commission's attention is drawn to the fact that there is no proposal for entering the system of aid for ooking coal in the
general budget* as was requested by Parliament in a Resolution
passed on 25 April 1979 and again in its Resolution of 19 December 1980 concerning the ECSC Budget for 1981*
The system involves a Community fund providing aid for the sale of Community coking coal and coke used by the steel industry) the ftuid is currently 47 million ECU per year, made up of 24 million ECU contributed on an ad hoc scale by six Member States, 17 million ECU contributed by the steel industry and 6 million ECU charged to the ECSC Budget.
Admittedly, this is rather an unorthodox mechanism as far as the Community budget is concerned. Nevertheless, it must be realized that, in its present form, it represents a relatively small burden on the ECSC budget (6 million ECU) and that the scale of national contributions is a very pragmatio reflection of the value that each Member State attaohes to the system (some countries, such as the United Kingdom, not contributing to it ).
To fit it into the general budget would certainly pose problems, especially in the present budget situation, since this would mean that the total public cost (currently 30 million ECU), if not the entire cost (currently 47 million ECU), would be borne by the general
It is therefore more realistic, perhaps, despite Parliament's insistence, to continue the present system of finanoing in 1982.
However, the Commission should take this decision explicitly, given its political implications.
It is accordingly proposed that the Commission should not have the system of aid for coking coal financed from the general budget.
1.14 RESEARCH AND INVESTMENT APPROPRIATIONS - Indirect Action (Articles 734 "to 739 )
DG XII, after reconsidering its requirements in 1982, requested the following entries in the preliminary draft for 1982*
under the appropriate headings: 194*067.000 ECU in commitment appropriations and
175.108.000 ECU in payment appropriations
in Chapter 100: 134.403.000 ECU in commitment appropriations and 35*920.000 ECU in payment appropriations.
DG XII considers that these sums represent the absolute minimum for all the research programmes approved by the Council , proposed by
the Commission or being prepared. An additional reduotion would be
a serious threat to the effectiveness of the programmes approved (appropriations under the speoifio headings) or would jeopardize the introduction of new programmes still awaiting decisions (Chapter 100).
These new programmes break down as follows:
Raw materials (item 7359)
Medical research III (item 7367)
Biomolecularengineering(item7370) 4millionECU 1millionECU Science and technology for development 5 million ECU 2 million ECU
Nhile it realizes how important it is that the programmes be carried out and how desirable that they be developed, BO XIX nevertheless considers
that, given the substantial volume of appropriations remaining on
1 January I98I (115*408 million ECU) and the large anouats carried over from I98O to 1981 (70,082 million ECU) and in view of current budgetary constraints, these appropriations are excessive. While the order of magnitude of the commitment appropriations proposed, by DG XII under specific headings is acceptable, the payment appropriations could be limited to 160 million ECU for 1982, aa inorease of 42,9% on 1981.
With regard to the Chapter 100 appropriations, DG XIX feels that in the present budgetary context and as it is by no means certain that the Council will actually approve these programmes, no appropriations should be entered at this stage of the procedure. An entry could be made subsequently by the appropriate budgetary method (letter of amendment or supplementary budget) if the outcome in the Council is favourable. It should also be noted that a slot has been provided for these appropriations within the future preliminai-y draft.
Commitments 95 million ECU 16,5 million ECU 11,103 million ECU 2*8 million ECU
It is accordingly proposed that the Commission:
(a) set the volume of appropriations to he entered under specific headings at:
- 188.967 million ECU in cornaitment appropriamone and
(h) decide, at the present stage of the procedure, to enter neither appropriations nor staff in Chapter 100 fdr programmes on which decisions are still awaited or whioh are still being prepared; depending on the decisions of the Counoil appropriations could be provided later by the appropriate budgetary method at the headings specifically earmarked for then*
Community operations in innovation (Article 752)
Dissemination, transfer and utilization of scientific and technical knowledge (Article 753 )
DO XIII requested total appropriations of 2,15 million ECU, including 1,25 million ECU for innovation proper (Artiole 752). The appropriations for the dissemination, transfer and utilization of scientific and technioal knowledge reflect the sharp rise in research and development appropriations in recent years, which is now producing a larger volume of results to be disseminated. 1X3 XIII also refers
to the conolusions reached "by the European Council on 1 and 2 December 1980 with regard to innovation policy at European level , the object of which
is to improve the coordination of Member States' innovation polioies,
strengthen the internal cohesion of common policies which affect innovation and stimulate innovation by analyses, recommendations and specific experiments.
This policy area is so important politically that a major increase
in appropriations would be in order. DO XIX therefore proposes that a total of 1,6 million ECU should be entered, divided equally between the two headings. This would be a substantial increase – from
0,9 million ECU in I98I to 1,6 million ECU in 1982 - but still reasonable .
It is proposed that the Commission enter an appropriation of 1,6 million ECU to be split equally between the two articles.
1.16 Community operations for the development of data processing (Item 7702)
1X3 III requested a commitment appropriation of 7 million ECU and a payment appropriation of 5 million BCU, thereby "bringing total budget appropriations for this programme to 25 million ECU.
It should be borne in mind that, beoause of a transfer to this heading in 1980 (+ 4»4 million BCU in commitment and payment appropriations), the new entry would take the total allocated to the programme above the ceiling authorized by the Council under this programme by that amount (4*4 million ECU)* DO III justifies this overshoot by the additional costs which it has had to bear, especially for the assistance of experts.
Moreover, the Commission has constantly maintained that the financial ceilings set in Council regulations or programme decisions should
be purely indicative.
Nevertheless, using the budget to exoeed a binding upper limit set in a regulation would raise complex legal questions.
It is proposed that the Commission take a decision on this matter, bearing in mind the implications that this decision might have for
other matters.
1.17 New information technology ( items 7710 and 7711 )
Two problems arise in the area of new information technologies, namely :
- the appropriations to be entered, for the development of microelectronics technology (item 7710),
- the appropriations to "be provided for the interinstitutional information systems (item 7711)*
( a ) Community operations connected with the development of microelectronics technology ( Item 7710 )
DG III requests a token entry and an operating appropriation in Chapter 100 of 52 million ECU for commitments and 11 million ECU for payments,
arguing that the Commission sent the Council a proposal on this
DG XIX has recommended that no operating appropriations be entered in Chapter 100 at the present stage of the procedure and that the necessary appropriations could be provided either by a supplementary budget or by a letter of amendment, depending on the decisions taken by the Council.
DG III has accepted DG XIX*s point of view about the prooedure to be followed. On the other hand, the initial request for an entry
in Chapter 100 to cover the chairmanship of the Permanent Nucleus has been maintained.
DG III initially requested an appropriation of 5»4 million ECU for
this new operation . Following a study of the matter , Directorates-General XIX and III agreed to propose that an appropriation of 2,9 million ECU
be entered for the INSIS and CADDIA operations.
The chair of the Permanent Nuoleus , however , has reserved its position and is maintaining the initial request of 5»4 million ECU.
It is proposed that the Commission:
- should not enter operating appropriations in Chapter 100 at the
present stage of the procedure for Item 7710 (Community operations connected with the development of microelectronics technology);
once the Council has taken a deoision, a proposal for a supplemental^ budget or a letter of amendment will be Bent to the budgetary authority,
- set the appropriations to be entered for Item 7711 (interinstitutional information systems) at 2,9 million ECU.
Financial support for transport infrastructure projects ( Article 781 )
DG VII requested the entry of an operating appropriation of 60 million ECU for commitment and 30 million ECU for payment under the heading
or in Chapter 100; this would cover the financial support that
could be given in 1982 after the adoption of the basic regulation
now before the Council . It must be emphasized that , although no formal decision has been taken, the Council (Transport) seems to be making good progress.
DG VII feels that the following projects could be envisaged for 1982:
– Financial aid for the Innviertel-Phyrn Autobahn in Austria: 20 million ECU
This sum represents the first instalment of a larger sum to be determined on the basis of the outcome of negotiations with Austria concerning a number of questions of Community interest , including
the possible granting of Community aid to help speed up the construction of the motorway. This is roughly equivalent to the direct benefit
that users would derive if work was speeded up. (The Commission discussed this matter on 8 April 1981.)
- Financial aid for the construction of a new marshalling yard on
the Italy-Switzerland + Germany rail route ( about 30% of the cost ) : 24 million ECU
The construction of this marshalling yard will remove a bottleneck which at the moment seriously hampers what is mainly a Community traffic flow.
- Financial aid for the development and modernization of combined rail/road terminals: 16 million ECU
It will not be possible to decide on the siting of these standardized teirainals until after the deliberations of the Transport Ministers
While acknowledging that the financing of transport infrastructure is of particular importance, DG XIX nevertheless feels that for general reasons and in the present budget context it cannot accept DG VII's proposal
that a substantial operating appropriation be entered in Chapter 100
now at the present stage of the procedure. It therefore recommends that a token entry be made under the heading, with no allocation in Chapter 100. Priority would then be given to providing appropriations for this heading by the appropriate budgetary means as soon as there were definite signs that the Counoil was olose to a decision*
It is proposed that the Commission:
should , for the time being , merely make a token entry , with no allocation in Chapter 100 , for the reasons given above ; funds would be provided
for the heading by the appropriate budgetary means as soon as there were definite signs that the Council was olose to a decision.
Most of the financial protocols involving expenditure included in this chapter expire in 1981. The Commission has already announced in its communication of 1 August 1980 (C0M(80)474 final) that it plans to negotiate the renewal of the financial protocols with the Mashreq and Maghreb countries and with Malta and Cyprus, although these are not due to expire until 1983* The new protocols will thus come into effect during 1982.
However, if the Commission specified the amounts envisaged it would be detrimental to the negotiations to be conducted with the beneficiary countries. At the same time, it would be politically inexpedient not to enter anything for this purpose in the 1982 budget. DG XIX*s solution would be to enter 150 million ECU in appropriations for commitment and
15 million ECU in appropriations for payment in Chapter 100 without, however, specifying the exact use to which the appropriations will be put. There should also be a new heading with a token entry for each financial protocol .
It is accordingly proposed that the Commission create the new headings in Chapter 96 and enter 150 million ECU in appropriations for commitment and 15 million ECU in appropriations for payment in Chapter 100 as a reserve for launching new financial protoools.
Following an amendment by Parliament two headings were created with token entries in the 1981 budget to cover any expenditure deriving from the Community^ membership of the Common Fund for Commodities. However, the Council's attitude on the matter rules out any hope of a specific
Community contribution to this organization. Consequently, DG VIII
proposes that these headings now be removed. However, in order to forestall a negative reaction on the part of Parliament, to which this chapter is
of special interest, DG XIX proposes that the headings be retained with a token entry.
It is proposed that the Commission retain the headings for the Common Fund.
Contribution of the European Public Service (item 1191)
In the negotiation of a new salary review method, the Commission is
planning to accept that , for a limited period , the rate produced by applying
the revised method be cut by a fixed amount. The amounts not paid in
salaries and pensions to those entitled will be used for aid measures determined by the Commission. The amounts in question will not , therefore , be
included under the budget headings providing for the payment of remuneration
and pensions but will constitute a new heading*
It is accordingly proposed that the Commission add to the budgetary nomenclature a new Item 1191 (Contribution of the European Public Service). The amount to be entered there will be calculated in due course by levying a percentage on the various headings concerning remuneration and pensions.
1.22 BUILDINGS. EQUIPMENT AND MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE Radio . television and film Btudio
At the request of the Spokesman's Group and the Directorate-General for Information, with the backing of the Offioes of President Thorn and
Mr Natali, DG IX has established estimates of expenditure for transferring the radio, television and film studio from the Rue de la Loi building
to the second basement of the fierla^mont building and the offices to the first floor.
DG XIX feels that this operation - which would cost around 720.000 ECU – is not appropriate in the present budget context.
It is suggested that the Commission reject the proposal to transfer the studio .
1.23 BUILDINGS. EQUIPMENT AMD MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE Creation of Commission Delegations in non-member countries
The Commission is planning to open a delegation in New Delhi and one in Brasilia. The expenditure involved totals 941*000 ECU for 1982, broken down between the following chapters:
20: Immovable property investments, rental of buildings and associated expenditure (441*000 ECU) ;
22: Movable property and associated expenditure (408.000 ECU) ;
The relevant appropriations are included in the stuns already proposed to the Commission.
Since this expenditure is politically sensitive, DG XIX feels that the Commission should formally approve the appropriations for opening these delegations .
It is proposed that the Commission take a formal decision to this effect.
1.24 BUILDINGS. EQUIPMENT AND MISCELLANEOUS ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE Construction of new buildings
The lesson of past experience and of numerous studies, including the
special report by the Court of Auditors on the policy of the Community institutions regarding their buildings, backed by the unanimous opinion
of all the Community authorities is that the system of renting buildings
is economically debatable. The Directorate-General for Personnel and Administration therefore proposes that an appropriation of 49»8 million ECU be entered in the estimate of expenditure for 1982 to finance the first annual instalment (30$) of the construction costs of three buildings in Brussels . The Council was informed of the project ( C0M(80)544 final )
Negotiations are now taking place between DO IX and the Belgian administration concerning the legal status of the land involved.
DG XIX feels that the Commission should agree to the principle of financing the construction of these buildings but, in the present budgetary situation, should limit the appropriation requested for 1982 to 25 million ECU.
The Commission has twice requested (for 1980 and 1981) that appropriations
be entered for purchasing land and building premises for the Commission Delegation in Tokyo. All it was given was an appropriation of 1,5 million ECU in Chapter 100 of the 1981 Budget for the purchase of premises, and even
this proved impossible. Now that it is planning to construct two buildings for its delegation in Canberra (one for the delegation and the other for the
Head of Delegation 's residence ) the Commission sent to the budgetary
authority on 23 March 1981 a proposal concerning the transfer of part of
this appropriation (526.000 ECU) from Chapter 100 to Article 207
( Construction of buildings ). If the budgetary authority authorizes this transfer the Commission will begin construction of the residence on land
which it will hold under a long lease obtained from the Australian Government. Construction of the delegation building is scheduled to begin on the same
land in 1983. 1982
At the request of DG IX, DG XIX proposes that the estimate of expenditure
for 1982 carry an appropriation of 7»2 million ECU for the purchase of a pieoe of land and 1,3 million ECU for the first annual instalment (one third) of the cost of the building in Tokyo.
The Director-General of the Nuclear Research Centre has applied for a subsidy to construct a building for the Technical and Vocational Training School of the Ispra Establishment , which was set up in 1963 because the European
School in Varese, like all the other European Schools, provides only primary and secondary education.
Some Member States will not recognize the certificates and diplomas awarded if the premises where teohnical instruction takes place do not comply with existing standards , as is the oase at present .
The cost of constructing a suitable building is estimated at 2,13 million ECU, of which 0,63 million ECU (30$) is requested for 1982.
Since the investment involved is not for research purposes, the cost may be regarded as administrative expenditure, to be charged to the general budget, and DG XIX considers that the Commission should approve the principle of constructing the building by creating an Item 2079 (Other buildings), with an appropriation of 0,63 million ECU, in the estimate of expenditure for 1982 .
It is therefore proposed that the Commission:
– agree to the principle of financing the construction of three buildings in Brussels and earmark an appropriation of 25 million ECU for the purpose.
– enter in the estimate of expenditure for 19°2 an appropriation of
7,2 million ECU for the purchase of a building site and 1,3 million ECU for the first annual instalment (one third) of the cost of the building in Tokyo,
– approve the principle of constructing a building for the Technical and Vocational Training School in Ispra and decide to create an Item 2079
with an appropriation of 0,63 million ECU in the estimate of expenditure for 1982.
In the 19°1 preliminary draft the Commission requested appropriations
totalling 37»12 million ECU, but in the final budget the budgetary authority in fact entered 20 million ECU.
For 1982 the Directorate-General for Personnel and Administration has requested appropriations totalling 32,4 million ECU for Chapter 21.
This figure seems excessive on several counts and will certainly not be approved by the budgetary authority.
Since there are plans to ask a group of experts to study the Commission's data-processing requirements, DG XIX considers that pending the outcome of
the study the appropriation for Chapter 21 should be limited to 28 million ECU,
It is suggested that the Commission enter an appropriation of 28 million ECU in the estimate of expenditure for 1982.
• "n 2720 : Information , publicity and participation in public events
> 'm 2721: Participation of the Communities in international exhibitions
Dissemination of information to young people
Articles 272 and 273 Total
•J \Q jpokesman's Group and the Directorate-General for Information has requested the following appropriations:
ip. recent budget years, operations financed with Article 273 appropriations h^ve changed to such an extent that it has become difficult to say whether they were information operations or educational operations, which, as such, have not been formally approved by the budgetary authority. For the sake of clarity,
DG XIX takes the view that :
(a) DG X's request concerning Item 2721 should be accepted: it is the third and final annual instalment of a total of 680.000 ECU;
(b) Item 2722 should receive the same appropriation as in 1981 ( 692.000 ECU) ;
(c) the dissemination of information to young people (former Item 273) should be included in general information under Item 2720 and the
total appropriation for this item be set at 11,5 million ECU in the 1982 estimate.
These proposals would raise expenditure on information from 10,472 million ECU in 1981 to 12,447 million ECU (+ 18.9%).
It is proposed that the Commission take these decisions.
At its 68th meeting on 19 February 1969 the Commission adopted the principle that it would make an annual financial contribution.
The Commission aids the centre in two ways: a certain sum is paid each
year from the Article 299 appropriation and the Commission, whenever possible, organizes receptions and similar functions at the ChSteau with a view to providing funds for the "Maison europfienne de Val Duchesse" Foundation.
In 1979 1980 the Commission decided to grant a subsidy of BFR 200.000, equivalent to 5*200 ECU, and amounting to 2% of the Centre's total resources. The same appropriation is earmarked for 1981, but there has not yet been a proposal to the Commission to authorize its utlization.
DG IX requests that the 1982 budget oarry an appropriation of 5*250 ECU for a subsidy still totalling BFR 200.000.
Since the Centre is now sufficiently capable of supporting itself, DO XIX feels that this subsidy could be discontinued.
It is proposed that the Commission should not enter appropriations to provide a subsidy for the Maison europSenne de Val Duchesse for 1982.
 2 . Points to which the Commission 's attention is SFOTION VI - COMMISSION (Operatine appropriations)
SECTION III – COMMISSION (Staff and administrative appropriations) 2.10 EUROPEAN' UNIVERSITY INSTITUTE IN FLORENCE 80
Appropriations for operations in the fisherieB sector
The appropriations requested for the fisheries sector - 86,075 million ECU in commitment appropriations and 96,825 million ECU in payment appropriations – concern four types of operations
( l ) Operations covered by the common organization of the market in fishery products , financed by the EAGGP Guarantee Section , the estimated cost of 31,75 million ECU being based on the existing rules;
(?) Specific operations in the fisheries and marine sector, of which an amount of less than one million ECU relates to the cost of proposals awaiting a Council decision;
Financial obligations deriving from agreements concerning fishing rights in the waters of other States, of which 3,85 million ECU relates to agreements not yet concluded;
Operations for structural improvements in the fisheries sector , partly financed by the EAGGP Guidance Section. The amounts relating to proposals account for 40 (out of 40.156) million ECU in commitment appropriations and 21 (out of 34,656) million ECU in payment appropriations.
The Commission must bear in mind that the entry in the budget of the amounts relating to proposals is based on the assumption – which appears to be a fair one and necessary politically - that the deadlock in the common fisheries and marine policy will be broken in 1981 .
( a ) Commitment appropriations ; 789 million ECU
The 132 million ECU increase over 1981 is the result of the combination of the following facts: the application of certain existing regulations has been extended, for example Directives 72/159 on the modernization of farms and 75/268 on mountain and hill farming, while others, such as the Mediterranean programmes adopted in 1978 and 1979*will be fully operational ; other measures will be adopted by the Council during 1981 , notably the stock–farming programmes in Italy and Ireland, the infrastructure programme in Germany and the integrated programmes for Scotland, the Lozere region and the south-east region of Belgium (1).
The increase m appropriations respects the 3*755 million ECU overall budget of the EAGGF Guidance Section for the five-year period I98O-84. The total of 797t5 million ECU in appropriations for the Guidance Section in 1982 (Chapters 36 to 43) is still well below the annual average of 831•7 million ECU available for the period 1982 to 1984.
( b ) Payment appropriations : 775 million ECU
The 293 million ECU increase over 1981 is essential for two main reasons. Firstly, commitments and payments are identical with indirect operations
(reimbursement-type). In this case, which accounts for approximately one third of the increase, the reasons for the increase are the same
for both commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. As regards direct operations (project-type), the payment appropriations
must be substantially increased to cover the commitments entered into before 1981 and to take account of the accelerated rate of implementation as a result of the system of advances for certain operations in the Mediterranean package.
( 1 ) Subject to their formal approval , the last four operations can be considered to be adopted.
This article, which Parliament introduced in the 19°0 budget with a token entry and for which the Commission al§o proposed a token entry for 1981 , was subsequently allocated 4 million EUA by Parliament at the first reading. The end of the 1981 budget procedure being what it wast Parliament did not press its demands, and this heading appears in the 1981 budget with a dash.
Given the present state of progress in this field, there seems no point in requesting for 1982 more than the 4 million ECU proposed by Parliament for 1981 .
Some of the operations m question cannot be further developed without a legal basis, which has still to be proposed.
Appropriations under this heading amounted to 45 million EUA in 1980, including the aid to Italy under Supplementary Budget No 2, and
21 million ECU in 1981 , including 15 million ECU for Italy . DG V and EG XIX propose 10 million ECU for 1982.
(b) Artide 691 (1.000 million ECU interest subsidy on EIB-NCI special loans to Italy )
Although it is expected that some of the loans can "be paid in 1981 , the first interest subsidies will probably not be paid before 1982. The
20 million ECU in Chapter 100 of the 1981 budget would thus remain unused.
It is therefore proposed that the same amount be re-entered for 1982; the matter could be reviewed if , before the end of 1981 , it becomes possible to make the 1981 appropriation available for 1982.
Part B of the European Council Resolution of 5 December 1978 on the setting-up of the European Monetary System and related matters provides for measures to strengthen the economies of the less prosperous Member States , including interest subsidies on certain loans . Council Regulation (EEC) No 1736/79 °*" 3 August 1979 lays down detailed rules
governing such subsidies, which are currently granted to Italy and Ireland .
The appropriations for these interest subsidies are financed from the
owr. resources of the general budget, pursuant to the Council Decision
of 21 April 1970 concerning the replacement of the financial contribution of the Member States by the Communities' own resources. It would therefore seem fair that Member States which do not participate in the European Monetary System should receive financial compensation in the form of repayment of their contribution to such interest subsidies.
At present , only the United Kingdom receives such compensation ; the budget estimate for 1981 is 44 . 768.082 ECU, calculated from the
United Kingdom's share of the VAT basis of assessment. The estimated appropriation for the United Kingdom in 1982 is 59•500•000 ECU.
If Greece does not participate fully and effectively in the EMS in 1982, it will also be entitled, under Article 8 of the above regulation, to financial compensation from the budget, determined on the basis of the interest subsidies paid to Italy and Ireland on NCI or EIB loans.
A provisional amount of 1.500.000 ECU has been earmarked for Greece for 1982, determined by reference to Greeoe's GNP-based contribution to the financing of the budget.
2.6 EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (Chapters 90 and 91 )
When the 1981 budget was established, Parliament decided to include two new chapters , each with a token entry , to cover European Development
Fund appropriations once the Fund is included in the budget. The Commission remains convinced that the EDF should be included in the
budget. It therefore appears politically appropriate that a token entry be made for 1982 in the new Chapters 90 and 91 created by Parliament, although this is questionable from the point of view of strict budgetary practice.
It should be emphasized that this presentation will raise objections from the Council.
In terms of world prices, the appropriations requested are some 30$ nigher than those authorized in 1981 . Given the variations in world prices, it is preferable to compare the appropriations in terms of Community prices. On this basis, the increase in food aid appropriations
j 2Cffo. Taking into account Community price rises for 1981–82, the increase in real terms in the food aid budget for 1982 will be approximately 10$.
In view of the food requirements of the Third World, the main objectives for ",982 must be to increase cereals aid and to diversify aid. Since the increase in world requirements of cereals has been estimated at 2jfo, tint, quantity of cereals supplied t^y the Community should be increased from 927-663 t to 1.160.000 t. In order to meet the Third World's requirements of oils and fats, it is proposed that the supply of 45*000 t of butteroil (the amount repeated each year since 1974) should be supplemented by 20.000 t of vegetable oil and that 9»8 million ECU be earmarked for this purpose (new heading).
The proposal for sugar aid in 1982 is 10.000 t. The increase in comparison with the 6.086 t traditionally accepted by the Council is in line with the objective of diversifying food aid products.
Lastly, 5 million ECU is requested as food aid for other products and will be used in response to some of the developing countries' structural food shortages and for emergency food aid.
The Commission's attention is drawn to the following points in particular:
– the autonomous increase (i.e. in addition to the obligations arising from the international food aid agreement) in cereals aid is 230.000 t;
- vegetable oil aid has been introduced (20.000 t).
In its communication to the Council of 5 March 1975 "the Commission proposed a five-year schedule during which commitment appropriations would be increased gradually from 100 million EUA in 1976 to
200 million EUA in 1980.
Because of the slow start in 197© and because appropriations for
commitment stagnated in 1980 (138,5 million EUA) and 1981 (150 million EUA), it was not possible to keep to the original timetable. The 200 million ECU in appropriations for commitment is finally proposed for 1982.
However, since the projects have now entered a phase of expansion requiring substantial payments, the appropriations for payment must be increased considerably (173 million ECU).
DG VIII emphasizes that the appropriations in the 1981 budget will not cover requirements this year and that a supplementary budget will be needed in 1981 . The solution finally agreed by 1X3 VIII and 1X3 XIX is based on the assumption that there will be no supplementary budget, and the appropriations requested for 1982 therefore include 60 million ECU for real requirements for 1981 not covered by the appropriations available for the year.
fG I proposes a number of specific operations to promote industrial and economic cooperation with nonr-member countries tinder the commercial and economic cooperation agreements. The budgetary authority entered appropriations for the promotion of commercial cooperation under heading 931 for a number of years. For 1981, this heading was amended
to cover expenditure on industrial cooperation operations with non-associated developing countries. The new operations proposed do
not fall precisely within the framework of this heading, firstly because some of them concern countries such as Canada, which cannot be regarded as developing countries, and secondly because they are designed to promote exports not only from non-member countries but also from the Community to non-member countries. EG I, 1X5 VIII and EG XIX have
agreed on a formula involving the creation of a new Chapter 99 (Cooperation with non–member countries) with an appropriation of
5 million ECU allocated to the single article (Operations under commercial and economic cooperation agreements with non-nnember countries). The headings which were in Chapter 99 in "the 1981 budget are therefore now in Chapter 98. The Chapter 96 heading also needs clarifying and becomes "Cooperation with Mediterranean countries".
Since the provisions governing the Institute prohibit the Commission from subsidizing the running costs of the Institute, the Commission provides financial assistance only for specific research projects.
The Commission's attention is drawn to the fact that it is also proposed that the budgetary authority provide an appropriation of 75•000 ECU for 1982, in Item 2882, to be used for the organization and operation of the
historical records of the European Communities, which are deposited at the Institute .
The Community's estimated resources for 1982 are 22,963 million ECU*
This is a provisional estimate, since the preparation of detailed estimates depends on the production of certain forecasting data whioh have not yet
been finalized, and because the agricultural forecasts will have to be amended in the light of the agricultural decisions taken by the Oouncil on 1 April 1981*
ii.e Commission's detailed estimates of own resources will be submitted totheAdvisoryCommitteeonOwnResourceson28April1981* Theynaythen be amended at the request of the Member States*
The estimates of expenditure shown in Chapter 80 are also provisional, since the amounts reimbursed to the Member States for expenses incurred in collecting own resources depend direotly on the estimates of traditional ownresources. Thisalsoappliestotheestimatesofappropriationsin Chapter 53 for measures in favour of the United Kingdom and the estimates
of appropriations in Chapter 82 on compensation for the United Kingdom for its contribution to the financing of interest subsidies on loans granted under the European Monetary System, since they depend on the United Kingdom's share of the VAT basis of assessment *
In 1982, nine Member States will continue to pay VAT own resouroes, while Greece will enjoy temporary exemption from application of the Sixth Directive - to which it iB entitled until 1984 - and will pay a GBP-based financial contribution, as it did in 1981*
3. Proposals for decisions and procedural arrangements
 - 85 - It is proposed that the Commission:
1 . Adopt the nomenclature set out on pages 15 to 27 .
2. Establish the corresponding appropriations, according to the decisions it takes on each of the items referred to in Part B.1 of this memorandum
3. Approve the appropriations in all the other budget headings, including the distribution of appropriations between the various Directorates-General and departments which act as authorizing officers by delegation for appropriations under the same budget heading, e.g. mission expenses
(Item 1301), entertainment and representation expenses (item 1701), formal and other meetings (Chapter 25) and other subsidies (Article 299) (pages 87 to 92).
4. Classify the various headings in Sections III and VI of the General
Budget as compulsory expenditure or non-compulsory expenditure (Document III).
5. Present , as it did in 1981 , borrowing and lending operations in Volume 8, corresponding to Part II of the Preliminary Draft Budget for 1982.
6 . Authorize Mr Tugendhat :
(a) to have the Preliminary Draft General Budget for 1982 drawn up after any appropriate technical adjustments and amendments have been made to these •etimates;
(b) to have the general introduction (Volume 7 of the Preliminary Draft Budget) drawn up, to which will be annexed the budget projections 1982-83-84;
(c) to have the general statement of revenue drawn up - on the basis of the total expenditure of the Commission and the other institutions - including notably the calculation of own resources (Volume I of the Preliminary Draft General Budget for 1982);
(d) to transmit to the budgetary authority the Preliminary Draft General Budget of the European Communities for 1982;
(e) to ensure that any amendments which may have to be made to the Preliminary Draft General Budget for 1982 as a result of any decisions the Commission may subsequently take be incorporated in letters of amendment and transmitted to the budgetary authority.
(This table will not be transmitted to the budgetary authority)
Directorate-General or Department
External relations
Economic and Financial Affairs
Employment and Social Affairs
Personnel and Administration
Research , Science and Education
Scientific and Technical Information and Information Management
Financial Institutions and
Credit and Investments
Statistical Office
Security Office
Secretariat of the ECSC
Approps 1981 requested by
Economic and Financial
Internal Market and Industrial Affairs
departments for 1982
Item 1701 - Entertainment and representation expenses for Btaff (This table will not be transmitted to the budgetary authority)
Competition 2.700 Employment and Social Affairs 8.500 Agriculture 11.300 Transport 4.600 Development 36.500 Personnel and Administration
Information - Spokesman Research , Science and Education
Scientific and Technical Information and Information
Financial Institutions and
Energy 6.000 Credit and Investments
Statistical Office
Security Office
Approps requested by
(This table will not be transmitted to the budgetary authority)
Directorate-General or Department
1 External Relations
2 Economic and Financial
3 Internal Market and
9 Personnel and Administration
5 Employment and Social Affairs 682.000
Research , Science and Education
13 Information Market and Innovation
Financial Institutions and
18 Credit and Investments
34 Statistical Office
37 Security Office
( 1 ) On 1 May 1981 "the 1981 appropriations had not been definitively allocated
since Article 250 carried only 5»4 million ECU, the remaining 1,6 million ECU
having been entered in Chapter 100. A proposal will be made to the budgetary authority that this appropriation be transferred to the heading.
Approps 1981 requested by
(This table will not be transmitted to the budgetary authority)
Directorate-General or Department
Approps 1981 requested by
1 External Relations
2 Economic and Financial Affairs
3 Internal Market and Industrial
5 Employment and Social Affairs
Financial Institutions and
12 Research , Science and
Information Market and
34 Statistical Office
42 Environment and Consumer
t (1) On 1 May 1981 the 1981 appropriations had not been definitively allocated since Article 251 in the 1981 Budget carried only 4 million ECU, the remaining 0,2 million ECU having been entered in Chapter 100.
Item 2551 – Participation "by the institution in conferences , congresses and, meetings
(This table will not be transmitted to the budgetary authority)
Directorate-General or Department
External Relations
Economic and Financial Affairs
Internal Market and Industrial Affairs
Employment and Social Affairs
Personnel and Administration
Approps 1981 requested by
Research , Science and
Information Market and Innovation
42 Environment and Consumer Protection Service
Item 2521 - Other cotmnigBiftas aadNbgamj.tteeB operating withiw the ECSC
(This table will not be transmitted x< the budgetary M.th.ority)
Directorate-General or Department
Internal Market and Industrial
Employment and Social Affairs
Approps 1981 requested t?y
Approps"^ requested by departments
Employment and Social Affairs 17 Energy
18 Credit and Investments TOTAL
Directorate-General or Department
Item 2^0 - ConferenceB. congresses and meetings orgajH?.ed by the table will not be transmitted to the budgetary authority)
Research, Science and
Information Market and Innovation
Internal Market sind Industrial Affairs
Appropriations are entered under the relevant heading where the Commission^ proposal for a regulation has been accepted or if it appears likely, from earlier discussions within the Community institutions, that a proposal submitted by the Commission before 15 June will be adopted before 31 December.
If the Commission^ proposal for a regulation has not yet been approved but iB likely to be approved in the following financial year, a token entry is entered under the relevant heading in
Section III of Chapter 100. depend on when
the budget and appropriations are entered in The amount of appropriations to be entered will the policy is expected to become operational.
The Commission adopted its criteria for the inclusion of new policies in
the budget in 19791 and these have been followed in the preparation of the estimates for 1982. These criteria are as follows:
A heading is entered but given only a token entry if a new policy
is being evolved by the Community authorities but no formal proposal for a regulation has yet been made by the Commission, or if a proposal has been made but it is not yet possible to assess the
cost of the policy; in such cases it would be pointless to allocate appropriations as this would needlessly increase the amount of own resources to be paid over.
This chapter is specifically intended to cover any shortfall in appropriations resulting from the difference between the estimated EUA conversion rates and the conversion rates obtaining at the time of implementation . Most of the expenditure in Title 1 ( Persons working with the institution) and a large proportion of expenditure in Title 2 (Buildings, equipment and miscellaneous administrative expenditure) is paid in Belgian francs.
It is proposed that a token entry be entered in Chapter 102.
On 16 December 1980 the Council adopted the Financial Regulation amending the Financial Regulation of 21 December 1977 as regards the use of the ECU in the general budget of the European Communities ( l ), and a regulation on the replacement of the European unit of account by the ECU in Community legal instruments (1).
!§y Council Decision of 18 December 1980, the ECU replaced the EUA to express the amounts of financial assistance under the Second ACP-EEC Convention and the previous conventions (2).
Ijy Commission Decision of 19 December 1980 the ECU became the unit of account to be used for the purposes of the ECSC Treaty (2).
Proposalsfor1982compared,withappropriationsfor1981(bytitle) 98 General comparisons 99
Community expenditure by sector
Proposals for 1982 compared with appropriations for 1981 (by chapter)
Application of the maximum rate for non-compulsory expenditure Compulsory expenditure in 1981 and 1982 112 Non-compulsory expenditure in 1981 and 1982 113 New measures 114
Non-compulsory expenditure 1982 - chapters which have increased considerably compared with 1981
113-116 The Community budget compared with GDP and national budgets 117
Total Total appropriations appropriations
Total appropriations for commitments
Total appropriations for payments
PROPOSALS FOR 1982 COMPARED WITH APPROPRIATIONS FOR 1981 (by title)
Total Total appropriations appropriations
commitments payments commitments payments Amounts X Amounts X
- TOTAL - SECTIONS III and VI
( (Operating appropriations)
A. AGRICULTURAL MARKET GUARANTEES ¡EAGGF Guarantee Section (Ch. 10 to 29'i
EAGGF Guidance Section (Ch. 40 to 43 Specific measures (Ch. 48
Regional Fund (Ch. 50, 5I and 54 MS (Ch. 52 Supplementary measures (UK) (Ch. 53
Social Fund (Ch. 60, 61 and 62, Miscellaneous (Ch. 64, 65, 68 and 69: Education and culture (Ch. 63 and 67 Environment and consumers (Ch. 66
Research and
Information and innovation fCh. 75 3.805.000
( Ch. 70 and investment ( Ch.72 and
Industry and internal market (Ch. Transport ( Ch.
EDF (Ch. 90 and 91' Food aid fCh. 92 Non-assoc. developing oounlriee (Ch. 93, Specific ami exceptional
H. REPAYMENTS AND RESERVES Repayments to Member States
(Ch. 80 Other repayments (Ch. 82 and 86 Financial mechanism (Ch. 61
Miscellaneous (Ch. 79> 83, 84 and 85¡ Reserves (Ch. 101 and 102,
(Staff and administrative appropriations )
COMMUNITY EXPENDITURE BY SECTOR Total appropriations for commitments
measures (Ch. 94 and 95
Cooperation with Mediterranean
Miscellaneous (ch. 97> 98 and 99 39.150.000 0,19 49.751.000 0,21 + 10.601.000 + 27,08
3ECTI0W VI - COMMISSION (Operating appropriations)
EAGGF Guarantee Section (Ch. 10 to 2$)
EAGGF Guidance Section (Ch* 40 to 43 Specific measures (Ch* 4$
Régional Fund (Ch. 50, 51■ OanIMd EMS (Ch. 5 Supplementary measures (UK) (Ch. 5
SocialFund (Ch.60,61and62) Miscellaneous (Ch. 64, 65, 68 and 69) Education and culture (Ch. 63 and 67 ) Environment and consumers ( Ch* 66 )
Energy policy (Ch, 70 and 71 Research and investment (Ch*72 and 73 Information and innovation ( Ch* 75 Industry and internal market (Ch. 77 Transport (Ch* 78
EDF (Ch. 90 and 91) Food aid (Ch. 92) Non-aseoc. developing countries (Ch. 93) Specific and exceptional
measures (Ch* 94 and 95) Cooperation with Mediterranean
(Ch* 96) (Ch* 97. 98 and 99)
Repayments to Meniber States (Ch* 80
Other repayments (Ch. 82 and 86 Financial mechanism (Ch. 81 Miscellaneous (Ch* 79, 83, 84 and 85 Reserves (Ch. 101 and 102
II . SECTION III - COMMISSION (Staff and administrative
COMMUNITY EXPENDITURE BY SECTOR Total appropriations for payments
Total Total Total Total Total Total appropriations appropriât ions appropriât ions appropriations appropriations appropr i at ions for for for for for for
comnitments payments commitments payments coir.r.itr.enta paymentB
Other sectors or products
Milk and milk products Beef and veal
10 Cereals and rice
13 Oilseeds and protein plants
14 Textile plants and silkworms
15 Fkmt and vegetables
Sheejmeat and goatmeat
Sggs and poultrymeat
Products not listed in Annex II to the Treaty Refunds in connection with Community food aid Accession compensatory amounts
Monetary compensatory amounts
Reserve for the EAGGF Guarantee Section
TOTAL - TITLES 1 AND 2 Including appropriations in Chapter 100*
Appropriations authorized for 1981
Appropriations requested for 1992
Common organization of the market in fishery products
Specific measures in the fisheries and marine sector
Comunity responsibility for certain financial obligations arising fron agreements on fishing rights in non-Coamunity waters
Measures to improve fisheries structures: measures to adjust **** redeploy capacity
Measures to improve fisheries structures : common measures
Including appropriations in Chapter 100*
Total Total Total Total Total Total appropriations appropriations appropriations appropriations appropriations appropr iat ions
commitments parents come it mentε payœentB commitments
Appropriations authorized Appropriations requested for 1981 for 1982
Projects for the improvement of agricultural structurée
Measures to assist less-favoured regions
Structural measures relating to the common organization of markets Expenditure in the agricultural sector
Total Total Total Total Total Total appropriations appropriations appropriations appropriations appr0priations appropriâtions
Including appropriations in Chapter 100 .
commitments payments commitments payments commitments
European Regional Development Pond - Community action in support of national regional policies
European Regional Developnent Pund – Specific Corounity measures
Measures to reduce economic disparities in the Caoonnity in the context of The European Monetary System
Supplementary measures in favour of the United Kingdom Other regional policy expenditure
appropriations appropriations appropriations
Including appropriations in Chapter 100*
Including 372 million ECU which should have been paid in 1981 .
Appropriations authorized Appropriations requested for 1981 for 1982
appropriations commitments piments commitments payments commitments
Social Pond - Expenditure onder Article 4 of the Council Decision of 1 February 1971
Social Pond - Expenditure under Article 5 of the Council Decision of 1 February 1971
Social Pund – Pilot schemes and preparatory atialies
Biucatioll and vocational training Employment , social protection and health
Contribution to the ECSC for social measures in connection with the restructuring of the steel industry
Protection of the environment the consumers
Cultural action and the European Foundation Training of national inspectors
Aid to disaster victims in the Community
Appropriations authorized Appropriations requested for 1931 for 1982
Total Total Total Total Total appropriations appropriations appropriations appropriations appropriations
commitments payments commitments payments commitments
General ttnri preparatory projects in the field of scientific research and technology
Research and investment Information markets and innovation Industry and the internal market
Expenditure resulting form borrowing and lending operations in the energy sector
TOTAL - TITLE 7 Including appropriations in Chapter 100.
Appropriations authorized Appropriations requested for 1981 for 1982
Total Total Total Total appropriations appropriations appropri at i ons appropriations
appropriations appropriations for for
commitrente payments commitments payments commitments payments
Total Total Total Total- appropriations appropriations appropriations appropriations for for for for
commitments payments commitcents payments 123456
Flat–rate repayment to the Member States of costs incurred in collecting own resources
Application of the financial mechanism pursuant to the Council Decisions of 17 May 1976 and 27 October 198O
Financial compensation to Member States which are not effectively and fully participating in the European Monetary System
Erpenditure resulting fron implementation of the guarantee for Community loans raised for the purpose of giving balance of payments support
Expenditure resulting troa implementation of the guarantee for Community loans raised to promote investment in the
Exchange losses and deficit carried over from previous year Other repayments
Provisional figures ; based on a K VAT rate .
Appropriations recruested (D (1)
European Development Ftmd - Cooperation with the ACP States
European Development Fund - Cooperation v.ith the OCT associated with the Community
Cooperation with non-associated developing countries Specific measures for cooperation with developing countries
Exceptional measures to assist developing and other non-member countries
Cooperation with Mediterranean countries Cooperation in the field of commodities
Operation of Commission delegations in developing countries Cooperation with non-member countries
Including appropriations in Chapter 100 .
Appropriations authorized Appropriations recmested for 1981 for 1982
appropriations appropriations appropriations appropriations for for for for
appropriations appropriations for for
commitments payeents commitments payments commitments
Total approps Total approps Total approps Total approps for commits for payments for coniai ts for payments
ORAND TOTAL 16.398.346.516 16.239.667.811 18.088.323.983 17.929.923.983 ♦ 1.689.977.467 ♦ Including appropriations in Chapter 100.
Including ^ppr jpriations hi ChapIIT 100* Preliminary uslimate.
1124 Jon-comp Unemployment insurance for temporary staff 1191 ion–comp Contribution of the European public service
Staff reductions in connection with the
reorganization of the Commission's departments token entry
Jon-comp Historical records at University Institute in Florence
Expenditure relating to the EEC-Canada Fisheries Agreement
Redeployment of capacity in the fisheries sector
Programme for production of beef cattle in Ireland
Pre-transit veterinary testing of cattle in Ireland
Programme to speed up improvement of agricultural infrastructure in certain less-favoured areas of the Federal Republic of
Continuous training, including cooperation between residential centres for adults
Community projects in the field of innovation Interinstitutional information systems
Expenditure resulting from implementation of the 1981 guarantee arrangements for Community loans raised for the purpose of giving balance of payments support
923 lon-comp Food aid in vegetable oil
Cooperation with non-associated developing countries on energy
Advisory Committee on Development Policies
Operations under commercial and economic
cooperation agreements with non-member countries
Allowances and expenses on entering and leaving the service and on transfer
Infrastructure and sooio-oedloal oosts ohargeable to the institution
Investments in immovable property, rental of buildings and associated oosts
Movable property and associated oosts Publishing and information
Speoific measures In the fisheries and marine sector
Protection of the environment and oonsumers
Cultural action and the European Foundation Reaearoh and investment
Information market and Innovation
Industry and the internal market Transport
Cooperation vith non–associated developing oountriea
Specific measure» for cooperation with developing countries
Exceptional measures to assist developing »"* other non-member countries
Allowanoes and expenses on entering and leaving the eervioe and on transfer
Infrastructure and eooio-aedical oost· ohargeáble to the institution
Investments in innovatile property, rental of buildings and associated oosts
Movable property and associated oosts Publishing and information
Specific measures in the fisheries and marine sector
Measures to improve fisheries structures : common measures
Projects for the improveaent of agricultural structures
Measures to aseist less-favoured regions Regional Pund
Protection of the environment and oonsumere Cultural aotion and the European Foundation
Research and investment Information market and innovation
Industry and the internal market
Cooperation with non-associated developing countries
Specifio measures for coopération with developing countries
Exceptional measures to assist developing and other non-member countries
of whioh EAGGF
General Budget of
the European Communities l)
Community GDP
General Budget of the European Communities in relation to
Guarantee as % of 12345678
Appropriations for payments 1973 to I98O «■ expenditure against appropriations for the
year as shown in the revenue and expenditin's accounts (definition used for calculating OWE resources).
- I98I : budget adopted on 23 December 1980 - 1982: preliminary draft (estimates).
Conversion rate: 1977 to 1980 - average rates for the year. 1981 and 1982: the Cofflmraaity budgets are established at the rates obtaining on 1 February the previous year* The other aggregates have been oonverted at the rates of 2 February 1981#
0 lacluding refunds for food aid and ACP sugar. \) Estimate*
>) No estimates have been made at this stage.
Community GDP
