Articles 6 and '7-pf Protocol No. 2 concerning the definition of the concept of "originating products" and methods of administrative cooperation to the ifiterira agreement between, the Community and
Yougoslavia lays down -the amounts iocy. deterAjtiyinf^whefl^forins. EUR.2
may be used instead of movement certIfffcateS; EUR.1 or when no documen­ tary evidence of origin is required.
The base date provided for in Protocol No. 2 for determining the equivalent value of the abovementioned amounts in the various national currencies is automatically changed every two years. Protocol No. 2 provides that the first adaptation wti ItU take 1st October 1980
as the base date for the said amounts.
As the equivalent values of these amounts in the various national currencies on 1st October 1980 are reduced compared to their corres­ ponding values on 30th June 1978, the equivalent value limits in the national currencies corresponding to the amounts laid down in Articles 6 and Article 16 are accordingly also reduced.
To remedy this situation in conformity. with Article 6 of the said Protocol No.2 which provides that the new amounts should be such
that their values expressed in the national currency of a given Member State are not reduced, it is considered opportune to increase the amounts in question .
This is the purpose of this draft Council Regulation. -
implementing in the Community revised amounts for the documentary require­ ments in Protocol No. concerning the definition of the concept of "origin­ ating products" and methods of administrative cooperation to the interim Ajreement between the European Economic Community and the Federal Socialist Republic of Yougoslavia
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, and in particular Article 113 thereof.
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Article 6 of Protocol No. 1 concerning the.definition of the concept
of "originating products" and methods of administrative cooperation to the interim Agreement between the European 'Economic Community and the Federal SocialistRepublicofYougoslavia, signedinBrusselson6May1980^',laysdown
that the amounts for determining when forms EUR.2 may be used instead of movement certificates EUR.l or when "no documentary evidence of origin is required as laid down in this Article and in Article 17, may be revised by the Community if necessary;
Whereas as from 1 October 1980 the equivalent value of the amounts concerned in some national currencies have been reduced when compared to their value valid on 30 June 1978;
Whereas as a consequence of the bi-annual automatic adaptation of the base date provided for in Protocol No. 2 the effective value limits of the national currencies concerned corresponding to the amounts laid down in
Article 6 and Article 17 of the said Protocol would be reduced; whereas
in order to avoid such a reduction it is necessary to increase these amounts;
(1) OJ No. L 130 of 27.5.1S30
TheamountlaiddowninArticle6(1)secondsub-paragraph, ofProtocolifo.2 shall be increased to 1# 620. .
The amounts laid down in Article 17(2) of Protocol No. 2 shall be increased to 105 and 325 respectively.
This Regulation shall enter into force on 1 May 1981. x •..
This Regulation shall be binding, in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. ,
Done at Brussels, ' For the Council ihe President
X Proposal, for a COUNCIL REGULATION ( EEC )
implementing in the Community revised amounts for the documentary requirements
in Protocol No 2 concerning the definition of the concept of originating products and methods of administrative cooperation to the interim Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on
trade and trade cooperation
( submitted to the Council by the Commission )
Articles 6 and <' of Protocol No. 2 concerning the definition of the concept of "originating products" and methods of administrative cooperation to the interim agreement between the Community.and1
Yougoslavia lays down the amounts for determining when forms EUR.2
may be used instead of movement certificates EUR.1 or when no documer," tary evidence of origin is required.
The base date provided for in Protocol No. 2 for determining the equivalent value of the abovementioned amounts in the various
national currencies is automatically changed every two years. Protocol No. 2 provides that the first. adaptation will take 1st October 1980 as the base date for the said amounts.
As the equivalent values of these amounts in the various national currencies on 1st October 1980 are reduced compared to their corres­ ponding values on 30th June 1978, the equivalent value limits in the national currencies corresponding to the amounts laid down in Articles and Article 16 are accordingly also reduced.
To remedy this situation in conformity with Article 6 of the said
Protocol No.2 which provides that the new amounts should be such
that their values expressed in the national currency of a given Merr.ber /
State are not reduced, it is considered opportune to increase the amounts in question.
This is the purpose cf this draft Council Regulation.
 Proposai for a -
implementing in the Community revised amounts for the documentary requirements
in Protocol No 2 concerning the definition of the concept of originating products and methods of administrative cooperation to the interim Agreement between the -
European Economic Community and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on trade and trade co-operation . >
Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community,
Having regard to Protocol No 2 concerning the definition of the concept of . originating products and methods of administrative cooperation to the interim Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia on trade and trade cooperation, signed in Brussels on' 6 May 1980 , and in particular Article 6 thereof, . ■ / '
Having regard to the proposal from the Commission,
Whereas Article 6 of Protocol No 2 lays down that the amounts for determining when forms EUR.2 may be used instead of movement certificates EUR.1 or when no documentary evidence of origin is required as laid down in that Article • and in Article 17, may be revised by the Community if necessary;
Whereas as from 1 October 1980 the equivalent values ,of the amounts concerned in some national currencies have been reduced when compared to their values valid on.30 June 1978;
Whereas as a consequence of the bi-annual automatic adaptation of the base date provided for in Protocol No 2 the effective value limits of the national currencies concerned . correspondi ng to the .amounts laid down in Article 6 and Article 17 of the said Protocol would be reduced;^ whereas in order to avoid such a reduction it is necessary to increase these amounts;
0J No L 130 of 27.5.1980, p. 32
The amount Laid down in the second sub-paragraph of Article 6(1 ) of Protocol No 2 shall be increased to 1 620.
The amounts laid down in Article 17(2) of the said Protocol shall be increased to 105 and 325 respectively .
This Regulation shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
It shall apply with effect from 1 May 1981 .
This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States .
Done at Brussels ,
For the Counci I The President
