(Communication from Mr Haferkamp) s?
- This question is on the agenda for the 664th meeting of the Commission Strasbourg , on Tuesday 12th October 1982 - under item 18 b .
By its communication dated 14 July 1982 ( document C0MC82 ) 471 final) the Commission had submitted to the Council an assessment of the situation after the second round of consultations that the Community has had with Japan under Article XXI I I : 1 of the GATT-
The present communication gives an update of the situation
afH^the third round of consultations under Article XX111:1 and propo^Jbto the Council a line of action for the following months.
By its communication dated 14 July 1982 (document C0M(82) 471 final) the Commission had submitted to the Council an analysis of the situation in the light of the consultations the Community has had with Japan, in May and July, under Article XXII1:1 of the GATT .
The communication analysed the evolution of trade between tifc Community and Japan, evaluated th'e measures taken by the Japanese
Gov^ynent to open up the Japanese market, and reported on the consul- tation9J$&nder Article XXII1:1 as well as on the work of the High
level Group established by the Council in March on industrial and - trade questions in relation to Japan .
Evolution of trade folate of play ~ _ %
By reference to the situation described in the above mentioned communication/ the updating elements are as follows :
The figures for the periocf^^nuary-August 1982 seem to confirm that the trend of Japanese exportf^ias levelled off and
there is a relative stabilisation of the EEC trade dificit vis-a-vs
Japan . According to the statistics of the Japanese Ministry of
Finance, the volume of Japanese exports in JJ^n has increased by
+ 3,6 % as compared to the corresponding per^fekof 1981 (in Dollar
terms, they decreased by - 7 %); Japanese imporfS^ave increased in Yen by + 7,8 % (in Dollar terms they decreased tfy - 3 %).
Consequently the trade deficit of the EEC has remained stable
in Yen terms (-1.500 billion Yen) and decreased in Dollar t^rms ($6,3 billion as against $ 7 billion for the corresponding
of 1981 ). In this context , Japanese imports of manufactured from the EEC have shown a tendency to stagnate, if not decrease,
Japanese exports to the EEC of "sensitive" products under surveillance have in general terms (except for certain regional markets) registered a tendency to decrease (e.g. a decrease of - 11 % for passenger cars for the period January-July 1982 as compared to the corresponding period of 1981). It is to be noted however that Japanese exports of video-tape recorders
have shown a sharp increase (+ 74 % in volume for the same period of January-July 1982).
– Wv . . . I I 31-irl traHp mipiîtifins in 3. high level Group on industrial and trade questions in
relation to Japan is planning, as a result of its future meeting
of 19 October, to submit to the CounciI a. report for its considerat­ ion at its Nov^flfeer session.
4. The last sessi^ of consultations under Article XXIIK1) (11-12 October) brought no new elements; as well as reiterating its ,
willingness to examine specific problems,, the Japanese delegation has
given no indication that its government will take any new actions in order to open up its market and t^emedy the problem of the disequi librii
of the exchanges.
basis of the Community's Written Representations, dated 7 April 1982
which contained specific requests. These requei^ envisaged the adoption by the Japanese Government of the political object^^ of increasing the
imports of manufactured products; they also envisage^ioderation of Japanese exports in certain sectors ; these requests still remain .
The Community's requests also pointed to specific tariff, fiscal and above all non-tariff obstacles in the development of Communi^j^xports
In this respect, given that the Japanese Government on the one hand^^s taken some measures in January, then again in May 1982 (of which an an&ys
has been made in the last Commission communication) and on the other, that it has recently reaffirmed its willingness to discuss concrete problems,
it could be useful , as a final test of its good wi LI to fprinally present the Japanese Government with a list of revised requests in the framework of a fixed timetable .
It should be recalled that these consultations took place on the
5^ Under these ci rcumstances, 'the Commission recommends that the Council :
a) confirms the will of the Community to make full use of the procedures provided for by Article XXIII of the GATTj'
and, in order to show the Community's wish not to neglect any
gpssible avenue for movement and to place the Japanese Government b&pre its responsibilities/ asks the Commission, in consultation
witfr the Article 113 Committee, to update and complete the list of specific requests of the Community. This revised list of
requests should fc>e approved by the Council at its November session. On the basis^jjthis, detailed consultations could be held in December 1982 aro^lanuary 1983 with a view to pressing the
JapaneseGovernmen^^takeadditionalmeasures. Thefirst of these consultations could- take place in Tokyo, with the
participation of the Article 113 Committee. -
The Council should have a rtyppt on the results of the<?e consultations for its February l9^^fcession in. order to decide on the
next steps to be taken . <?
