( Communication from Mr Davignon )
N.B. : 1. Mr Davignon has agreed to the circulation of this paper, but reserves the possibility of proposing amendments after having read it.
2. This question- is on the agenda for the 664th meeting of the Commission
Strasbourg - on Tuesday 12th
To : Members of the Commission M. AUDLAND'
 COMMUNICATION TO THE COMMISSION (presented by Mr. DAVIGNON - Vice-President )
"Communication from the Commission to the Council on Community natural gas supplies"
The Commission, in its Communication on natural gas to the
Energy Council of the 27th October 1981, drew attention to the changing pattern of the Community's natural gas supplies and the rapid growth of imports from only a few countries outside the Community, In the light of these developments, the Communication reviewed the types of measures to ensure security of gas supplies and urged that they be fully pursued by Member States. The argument that the price for imports of natural gas from outside the Community must be such
as to allow natural gas to remain competitive on the final consumer's market was also stated .
The Council welcomed the Communication and asked that the security
of supply aspect be studied in more detail with Member States. This request was carried out and led to a second Communication being presented to the 16th March Energy Council ; This reaffirmed the
measures to increase supply security,and they were adopted in the
internal minutes of the Council meeting. The Council also requested
that the subject be further studied with Member States experts with a
view to making any proposals judged necessary to increase supply security.
The security of supply afforded by existing and planned measures in the Member States was then assessed using a scenario approach . The results of this study indicate that a major interruption in natural gas supplies could be dealt with,with very limited effects on the final consumer.
These results are presented in the latest Communication, together
with a review and update of the Community's natural gas supplies. The opportunities for further co-operation at Community level, to further enhance supply security, are also reviewed as well as the Commission's desire to study this area in more detail. The Communication also proposes establishing a framework to advise in the event of major difficulties in supplies from outside the Community.
The Commission is asked :
- to adopt the Communication
- to transmit it to the Council.
(1) C0M(81)53Q final - "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning natural gas"
(2) C0M(82>45 final - "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning measures to enhance the security of
natural gas supplies to the Community"
The Communication should be forwarded to the Council as early as possible for the energy session to be held on the 9th November 1932
Consultation of European Parliament )
) facultative Consultation of ESC \
The Communication reviews the development and outlook for natural
gas in the Community. One of the main conclusions is that although the very rapid growth in natural gas consumption over the last two decades has slowed, imports of natural gas from third countries will continue to grow in importance.
The document also reviews the Commission's studies into the security of Community natural gas supplies which show that a major interruption in supplies could be dealt with. Additional long-term measures and the possibilities for further co-operation at Community level are
also examined.
The main findings in the report, and the Commission proposals, are summarised under the section "Conclusions", for agreement by the Council.
 Communication from the Commission to the Council on Community natural gas supplies
1.1 In its Communication on natural gas to the Council of the
27th October 1981 the Commission drew attention to the changing pattern of the Community's natural gas supplies and the growing contribution of imports of gas from outside the Community. The Council noted the Commission's analysis and invited the Commission to study this area in more detail, taking into account the views of the Member States .
1.2 In line with this invitation- the Commission presented a Communication on the security of natural gas supplies to the Community ( 2 ) to the Council of the 16th March 1982. This Communication had been prepared after consultation with Member States' experts and reviewed the broad
types of measures available to enhance the security of natural gas
1.3 The Council welcomed the Commission's further work in this area and also recognised the growing role played by natural gas in'meeting
the Community's energy needs and reducing the Community's dependence on oil. The Council also noted that the Commission would carry out further studies in order to make any specific proposals judged necessary to reinforce natural gas supply security to the Community.
1.4 The present Communication briefly reviews the development and outlook r
for natural gas in the Community and summarises the Commission s further work-on* supply security, in particular the work undertaken in co-operation with Member States since the March 1982 Council .
( 1 ) C0M(81 ) 530 final . "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning natural gas"
(2) C0M(82) 45, final "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning measures to enhance the security of natural gas supplies to the Community"
The role of natural gas in the Community has grown rapidly over the past two decades and natural gas now meets about 18% of Community energy needs compared to only 7% as recently as 1970. This rapid growth in natural gas consumption was largely based on the considerable reserves discovered in the Netherlands, the leading producer in the Community, and the subsequent finds in the UK sector of the North Sea .
The growth in natural gas consumption has made an important contribution to the diversification of the Community's energy supplies, and in particular has helped to reduce the over-dependence on oil. This is illustrated by the growth in natun gas consumption from 153 milliard cubic metres(1) in 1973, the time of the first o shock, to a peak consumption of 226 milliard cubic metres reached in 1979, compared to a decline in oil consumption over the same period.
More recently, the part of imports from outside the Community in total natural gas supplies has also grown rapidly. In 1977 imports from third countries accounted for about 11% of total natural gas supplies, a proportion which had reached 21% two years later .
In 1980, however, Community natural gas consumption fell for the first time, reflecting price developments and uncertainty surrounding some contracts for imports from third countries , together with a worsening economic environment .
Current levels of Community natural gas consumption continue to fall with consumption in 1981 at 214 milliard cubic metres showing a slight decline for the' second year in succession . The picture varies between Member States , however , showing the different impact of energy saving measures and substitution by alternative energies, economic recession and progress on major new import contract! In France, for example, consumption in 1981 grew by more than 4% over the previous year whilst the Federal Republic of Germany showed a decline of more than 6%.
 Fed. Rep. of Germany
Italy .
Third
from Third
Ireland 2.1 2.1 Greece 0.1 0.1 EUR 10 273.4 154.0
Table 1 - Community Natural Gas Supplies 1990 m
Communi ty trade
Imports from
% of Total
45.5 7.8 6.5 31.2 13.0 2.6 - 7.0C8.0)2 T*4% 69% Netherlands' 38.0 75.8 -39.8(1) 2.0 - - 2.0 - 2% 5%
Based on forecasts for importers
Under negotiation . Quantity given would
not yet Government approved
be the estimated take in 1990 .
Note <v The sum of the imports given by source country is mot necessarily equal to total imports as the source of some supplies is not yet settled .
% of Natural Energy Cohsumption Gas consump-
These recent developments are also reflected in a reduction in the forecast for total Community natural gas consumption for 1990; from the
1981 forecast of 292 milliard cubic metres to the latest forecast of 273 milliard cubic metres. This decline in the forecast for natural gas consumption is mainly reflected in a reduction in the forecast for imports from third countries,
The pattern of Community nafural gas supplies forecast for 1990 is given in Table 1 . This shows that about 56% of total Community consumption will be accounted for by indigenous production. The balance will be imported from existing suppliers to the Community, namely Algeria, Norway, the USSR and, for relatively small quantities of gas to Italy , Libya .
The contracts for supplies from Algeria ha^e recently been the subject of re-negotiation with settlements reached for the contracts with Distrigaz of
Belgium, Gaz de France and SNAM of Italy. The contract for Libyan gas supplies to Italy is still under re-negotiation .
Contracts for additional supplies have be.en agreed or are under negotiation between several undertakings from within the Community and Soyusgasexport
of the USSR, A consortium of gas undertakings from within the Federal Republic of Germany have agreed new contracts for a total of 10.5 milliard cubic metres
a year from the USSR from 1984 for 25 years. Negotiations on the supply of up to 0.7 milliard cubic metres a year of natural gas for West Berlin are currently taking place. A contract for 8 milliard cubic metres a year between Gaz de Franc and Scyu $ gas export has also been agreed .
Heads of agreement for a contract of 8 milliard cubic metres a year between SNAM of Italy and Soyusgasexport have been drawn up, although the new contract has not yet been approved by the Italian Government. Talks are continuing between the Belgian and Soviet administrations concerning the contract for gas supplies t Distrigaz of Belgium although,in any event, the quantities would be under the
■ 5 milliard cubic metres initially envisaged. Greece is currently giving consideration to imports of 1 to 2 milliard cubic metres a year from the USSR, although this would not be via the same pipeline.
2.11 Recently a new contract was signed by a consortium of undertakings from the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the Netherlands and Belgium for a total of 3.5 milliard cubic metres a year from fields in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea. This gas will come via
"the new Norwegian gas gathering pipeline currently under construction and deliveries are planned to start in 1986.
2.12 The forecasts given in Table 1 show that imports will account for about 44% of total natural gas consumption,or 8% of total energy consumption, if it is assumed that the current negotiations for gas supplies from the USSR with Italy and Belgium lead to an agreement.
2.13 Assuming full contractual quantities for imports from the USSR, (which are slightly above those given in Table 1) and assuming
agreements with Belgium and Italy, gas imports from the USSR would represent about 19% of total Community gas supplies and less than
4% of total energy supplies.
Imports f rom Norway would account for about 12% of Community natural gas consumption, imports from Algeria 10%, from Libya about 1%, and the remaining 2% is accounted for by possible new third
country suppliers. The percentages for individual Member States vary quite widely but in no case would the share of natural gas from the USSR, which would be the largest third country supplier, exceed one third of the total gas consumption in the importing country.
2.14 The pattern of consumption is also forecast to change somewhat over
the next decade . For the Community as a whole the share of gas t
consumed by the domestic and commercial sector is forecast to
increase from a-current value of about 44% to 48% by 1990. This growth in share is mainly at the expense of the share held
by electricity generation. Whilst this shift reflects a likely increased premium use of natural gas, it will also tend to increase the cost of supply because of the additional costs associated with the smaller but more numerous domestic consumer and his more seasonal pattern of demand.
Beyond 1990 more diversification is expected as the new sources with which Community gas undertakings are currently holding exploratory discussions or negotiations are developed and begin deliveries. Possible new sources of supply to the Community include Canada, some African countries including the Cameroun and Nigeria and some Middle East states including Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
However, because of the need to fully consider the technical, economic
and environmental aspects of such very large projects and the
considerable lead times for their development, none of these sources
could supply gas to the Community before the end of the decade at the earliest
There is also considerable potential for ^additional Norwegian supplies in the longer term, although there would be formidable technical problems to be overcome and very large investments to be made. The Norwegian Government is also concerned that the wider economic and environmental implications of oil and gas development policy are fully considered .
Depending . on the progress in developing such new sources of supply , as • well as the development of production within the Community, it is estimated that total Community consumption in the year 2000 could be
between 280 to 320 milliard cubic metres, and natural gas would then hold
its current share of about 18% of total energy consumption.
One of the key factors in the long term development of natural gas will undoubtedly be the price of imports from third countries . In general , as sources of gas further from the Community are considered, so the cost£ involved tend to rise . Of course , for a viable project , the gas traded must give a reasonable return on investment for the developer, but the price of" th'e gas must also be such as to remain competitive
on the final consumer's market, after allowing for all the costs of transport and distribution.
At the presentation at the 16th March 1982 Council of the Commission 's
previous document on natural gas supply security ( 1 ) the
that the Commission would carry out further studies into
and report on its findings . A meeting of Member States'
convened by the Commission* to decide upon an approach to
further studies. It was agreed that a scenario approach
most suitable and a set of scenario conditions was agreed by Member States.
These conditions gave scenarios of an interruption of 10% and 25% in normal forecast natural gas supplies, expressed at an annual rate, for a 6 month winter period in the reference year chosen (1990). Furthermore, Member States were asked to examine how they could deal with such interruptions in both a normal and a severe winter .
A questionnaire based on these scenarios was subsequently sent out to Member States and these were completed and returned to, the Commission. The questionn­ aire replies were then analysed by the Commission and discussed with Member States. They form the basis of the general conclusions on natural gas supply security contained in the following sections of this report.
The results of the scenario exercise show that the gas industry in the Member
States of the Community is able to deal with all the scenarios examined with only some
limited peak supply problems in some of the countries, in the most extreme
circumstances. As regards the Member States which are most reliant on imports'
from outside the Community (see Table 1) the gas industry in these countries
have taken particular care to ensure security of supplies and indeed they would be able to deal with an even more severe shortfall in supplies than that
represented by the most extreme scenario . «
All of the types of measures to deal with a shortfall in qas supplies listed in the Commission 's previous Communications ( 1 ) would be used by different Member States
although the exact combinations vary widely. Much depends on what criteria are used to guide the gas industry in dealing with shortfall in supplies in terms of economic optimisation, and operating procedures, bearing in mind that in
reality the duration of the shortfall and the type of winter faced would not
(1) C0M(82)45 final "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning measures to enhance the security of natural gas supplies to the Community".
Council noted this subject experts was then adopt for the would be the
be known at the beginning of the interruption period. Indeed in the severe winter scenario the picture is complicated by the need to use emergency resources for both the increased demand from cold weather and to make up
t the shortfall in supplies .
3.6.The scenario results show, however, that for the Community as a whole, the measure which makes the greatest contribution to making up the shortfall in supplies is storage, which would make up about one third of the shortfall
under each of the scenarios . The next largest contribution' is made by *
spare production capacity, which would play roughly an equal role in the
10% scenarios but a relatively smaller role in the 25% scenarios.
Flexibility on import contracts would be used in only a few countries, although it makes a major contribution in these cases. The use of interruptible contract! is relatively small, meeting in the 10% scenarios around one eighth of the shortfall in supplies , although their role increases significantly in the .
4.1. Whilstthegnalysisdescribedaboveillustratesthatthegasindustryin the Member States of the Community can deal with a major interruption in supplies through the use o'f a variety of measures, additional measures to enhance supply security should also be fully pursued.
4.2. Firstly,therearethelongtermmeasurestoincreasesupplysecurityasin the Commission's previous Communications :
- diversification of imports t
development of SNG (Substitute Natural Gas)
Diversification of Imports
Several Member States attach considerable importance to this long term measure to increase supply security and there are preliminary talks or negotiations underway with several possible new suppliers as mentioned in Section 2.
Whilst diversification, like the other two long-term measures, is unlikely to make a significant impact in this decade, present efforts should be fully maintained, and the Commission will continue to watch progress closely.
The Commission's previous Communication on natural gas outlined the need to
achieve a long term balance between the rate of indigenous production and
natural gas reserves. The most scope for increasing or extending the contrib- «
ution of indigenous production therefore lies in further exploration to increase the known resource base. Both of the two major Community natural gas producers, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, are encouraging further exploration
with the hope of increasing their known resources which underpin production. Exploration is also urider way in other Member States although the possibility
of major new finds is considered less likely.
4.5. To date relatively very little natural gas has been produced from depths greater than 5000 metres although many productive fields in Europe lie between 3000 and 4000 metres . Recently , however , there have been a number of theories advanced that suggest very substantial quantities of gas exist at greater depths. Earlier this year the Commission organised a seminar to discuss these theories and invited representatives of the Member States and leading industry and academic'iexperts. Following this seminar a study group
will be established by the Commission, including representatives of the Member States and Norway, to examine the approach and information required to evaluate the potential of "deep gas". If these initial investigations are sufficiently encouraging it would then be appropriate to consider the next step such as a preliminary geological survey , which could benefit from Community aid . Whilst the Commission is aware of the rather speculative nature of an investigation into "deep gas", it is exactly this fact which makes a step by step approach, at Community level , so appropriate .
4.6. The production of Substitute Natural Gas (SNG) from coal is agairi a long term possibility, which could make a contribution to future gas supplies if the . technology can be developed to an economically viable stage. This depends to some extent on the future evolution of gas prices, but in any case research on SNG represents something of an insurance policy and should be fully pursued. With the softening of the energy market some SNG projects have recently been abandoned but it would be unfortunate if short term considerations prevented the development
of a possibly' viable long term option . The Commission , indeed , continues to give financial support for gasification projects in the Federal Republic'of Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom as well as for underground gasification projects in Belgium ,and France .
Further Co-operation at Community Level
4.7. The ability of Member States to deal with a major interruption in supplies relies on existing and planned measures undertaken by the gas industry in the individual Member States . It cannot , however , be excluded that some Member States could be affected more severely than others by a shortfall from outside supply sources and in such a case a degree of pooling of resources by Member States would further enhance the security of supply .
4.8. It is understandable that a precise commitment may be difficult to make in advance, particularly since the gas industry is essentially a commercial activity, but in exceptional circumstances there may be a need for such action. With the different measures available to individual. Member States it is clear that there could be considerable scope for one Member State to help another, in addition to existing agreements.
4.9. The one physical constraint which could prevent such further co-operation is the inability of the gas transport system to re-allocate resources as required. However, the European gas grid is already highly integrated, although there - may be a need for some further reinforcements to cope with the dislocation of
a major supply shortfall .
4.10. In any event, the advantages of any further measures in terms of security of
supply must be balanced against the extra cost. For this reason further links to enhance supply security which would also accomodate new supply patterns
would be more likely to be justifiable . Such could be the case, for example, if
there was a project for the export of Norwegian . gas to continental customers
via a route through the UK and additional benefits in terms of security of supply could be demonstrated.
4.11 . Tha Commission is anxious to explore this area of additional co-operation at
the Community level in more detail and proposes to undertake a series of studies into the different possibilities. The Commission also proposes to establish
in conjunction with Member States' representatives and industry experts, a framework to advise, on an ad hoc basis, in the event of a major interruption in supplies from outside the Community.
- diversification of imports
- development of Substitute Natural Gas CSN6)
That the possibilities for further cooperation at Community level on the possi ble
security of natural gas supplies be explored . This includes studies into / assistan.ee between Member States in the case of difficulties in supplies from outside the Community, the adequacy of the natural gas transport system in this respect and studies into the prospects for the exploitation
of " deep gas " in the Community .
of any major
The Council is requested to agree the following conclusions :
(i) Natural gas will continue to play an important role in meeting Community energy needs , in diversifying the Community 's energy supplies and in helping to reduce the* Community 's dependence on oil .
(ii) Very considerable efforts are in hand in the gas industry of the Member- States to assure the security of natural gas supplies. These measures con deal with a major shortfall in supplies during a severe winter with only very limited effects on the final consumer.
iii) mat the following measures continue to be fully pursued within Member States to further enhance the security of natural gas supplies in the long term :
That the Commission should , in
representatives , advise , on an ad basis , in the difficulties in»supplies from outside the Community .
conjunction with
Revised text following tl\e special meeting of the Chefs de Cabinets
( Commum cat ion from Mr Davignon )
This (motion is on1 the agenda for the 664th meeting of the Commission Strasboy^f> ,pn Tuesday -12th October 1982.
To : Members of the Commission M. AUDLAND
The Communication should be forwarded to the Council as ea^iy as pcssibls for the energy session to be held on the 9th Never!r.-
t Consultation of European Parliament
Consultation of ESC
 COMMUNICATION TO THE COMMISSION (presented by Mr. DAVIGNON - Vice-President )
"Communication from the Commission to the Council on Community natural gas supplies "
1. The Commission, in its Communication on natural gas to the
Energy Council of the 27^h October 1981, drew attention to the changing pattern of the Cbmmunity's natural gas supplies and the rapid growth of imports from only a few countries outside the Community. In the light of these developments, the Communication reviewed the types of measures to ensure security of gas supplies and urged that they be fully pursued by Member States. The argument that the price for imports of natural gas from outside the Community must be such
as to allow natural gas to remain competitive on the final consumer's market was also stated .
The Council welcomed the Communication ,4nd asked that the security
of supply aspect be studied in more detail with Member St^es. This request was carried out and led to a second Communication being
presented to the 16th March Energy Council. This reaffirmed the
measures to increase supply security ,and they were adopted in the
internal minutes of the Council meeting. The Council also requested
that the subject be further studied with Member States experts with a
view to making any proposals judged necessary to increase supply security.
The security of supply. afforded by existing and planned measures in the Member States wasthenassessedusingascenarioapproach.The resultsof this study indicate that a major interruption in natural gas supplies could be dealt with,with very limited effects on the final consumer.
These results are presented in the latest Communication, together
with a review and update of the Community's natural gas supplies. The opportunities for further co-operation at Community level, to further enhance supply security, are also reviewed as well as the Commission's desire to. study this area in more detail. The Communication also proposes establishing a framework to advise in the event of major difficulties in supplies from outside the Community.
The Commission is asked :
- to' adopt the Communication
- to transmit it to the Council.
(1) C0M(81>530 final - "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning natural gas"
(2) C0M(82)45 final - "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning measures to enhance the security of
natural gas supplies to the Community"
The Communication reviews the development and outlook for natural gas in the Community. One of the main conclusions is that although the very rapid growth in natural gas consumption over the last two decades has slowed, imports of natural gas from third countries will continue to grow in importance.
The document also reviews the Commission's studies into the security of Community natural gas supplies which show that a major interruption in supplies could be dealt with. Additional long-term measures and the possibilities for further co-operation at Community level are
also examined.
The main findings in the report, and the Commission proposals, are summarised under the section "Conclusions", for agreement by the Council.
 Communication from the Commission to the Council on Community natural gas supplies
1.1 In its Communication ori natural gas to the Council of the
27th October 1981 the Commission drew attention to the changing pattern of the Community's natural gas supplies and the growing contribution of imports of gas from outside the Community. The Council noted the Commission's analysis and invited the Commission to study this area in more detail/ taking into account the views of the Member States .
1.2 In line with this invitation, tHe Commission presented a Communication on the security of natural gas supplies to the Community^ to the Council of the 16th March 1982. This Communication had been prepared after consultation with Member States' experts and reviewed the broad types of measures available to enhance the security of natural gas supplies .
1.3 The Council welcomed the Commission's further wprk in this area and also recognised the growing role played by natural gas in' meeting
the Community's energy needs and reducing the Community's dependence on oil. The Council also noted that the Commission would carry out further studies in order to make any specific proposals judged necessary to reinforce natural gas supply security to the Community.
1.4 The present Communication briefly reviews the development and outlook for natural gas in the Community and summarises the Commission's further work on supply security, in particular the work undertaken
in co-operation with Member States since the March 1982 Council.
(1) C0M(81) 530 final "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning natural gas"
(2) C0M(82) 45 final "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning measures to enhance the security of natural gas supplies to the Community"
The role of natural gas in the Community has grown rapidly over the past two
decades and natural gas now meets about 18% of Community energy needs compared
to only 77, as recently as 1970. This rapid growth in natural gas consumption
was largely based on the considerable reserves discovered in the Netherlands, the
leading producer in the Community, and the subsequent finds in the UK sector of the North Sea .
The growth in natural gas consumption has made an important contribution to the diversification of the Community's energy supplies, and in particular has helped
to reduce the over-dependence on oil. This is illustrated by the growth in natural gas consumption from 153 milliard cubic* metres ( 1 ) in 1973, the time of the first oil shock, to a peak consumption of 226 milliard cubic metres reached in 1979,
compared to a decline in oil consumption over the same period.
More recently, the part of imports from outside the Community in total natural gas supplies has also grown rapidly. In 1977 imports from third countries accounted for about 11% of total natural gas supplies, a proportion which had reached 21% two years later .
In 1980, however, Community natural gas consumption fell for the first time, reflecting price developments and uncertainty surrounding some contracts for imports from third countries , together with a worsening economic environment .
Current levels of Community natural gas consumption continue to fall with consumption in 1981 at 214 milliard cubic metres showing a slight decline for the second year in succession . The picture varies between Member States , however , showing the different impact of energy saving measures and substitution by alternative energies , economic recession and progress on major new import contracts . In France, for example, consumption in 1981 grew by more than 4% over the previous year whilst the Federal Republic of Germany showed a decline of more than 6%.
 Fed. Rep. of Germany
Ireland Denmark Greece
Estimated Imports from Third Countries
Natural Gas Imports from Third Countries as :
Table 1 - Community Natural Gas Supplies 1990
USSR % of Total
% of Natural
(1) Based on forecasts for importers
(3) Undernegotiation. Quantitygivenwouldbetheestimatedtakein1990.
Note « The sum of the imports given by source country is not necessarily equal to total imports as the source of some supplies is not yet settled.
2.6. These recent developments are also reflected in a reduction in the
forecast for total Community natural gas consumption for 1990; from the
1981 forecast of 292 milliard cubic metres to the latest forecast of 273 milliard cubic metres. This decline in the forecast for natural gas consumption is
, mainly reflected in a reduction in the forecast for imports from third countries.
2.7. The pattern of Community natural gas supplies forecast for 1990 is given in
Table 1 . This shows that about 56% of total Community consumption will be accounted for by indigenous production. The balance will be imported from existing suppliers to the Community/ namely Algeria, Norway, the USSR and, for relatively small quantities of gas to Italy, Libya.
2.8. The contracts for supplies from Algeria'havp recently been the subject of re-negotiation with settlements reached for the contracts with Distrigaz of
Belgium, Gaz de France and SNAM of Italy. The contract for Libyan gas supplies
to Italy is still under re-negotiation .
2.9. Contracts for additional supplies have been agreed or are under negotiation between several undertakings from within the Community and Soyusgasexport
of the USSR.. A consortium of gas undertakings from within the Federal Republic of Germany have agreed new contracts for a total of 10.5 milliard cubic metres
a year from the USSR from 1984 for 25 years. Negotiations on the supply of up »
to 0.7 milliard cubic metres a year of natural gas for West Berlin are currently taking place. A contract for 8 milliard cubic metres a year between Gaz de France and ScyuJ gasexport has also been agreed .
2.10. Heads of agreement for a contract of 8 milliard cubic metres a year between SNAM of Italy and Soyusgasexport have been drawn up, although the new contract has
not yet. been approved by the Italian Government. Talks are continuing between
the Belgian and Soviet administrations concerning the contract for gas supplies to Distrigaz of Belgium although,in any event, the quantities would be under the
5 milliard cubic metres initially envisaged. Greece is currently giving consideration to imports of 1 to 2 milliard cubic metres a year from the USSR, although this would not be via the same pipeline.
2.11 Recently a new contract was signed by a consortium of undertakings from the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the Netherlands and Belgium for a total of 3.5 milliard cubic metres a year from fields in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea. This gas will come via
• the new Norwegian gas gathering pipeline currently under construction and deliveries are planne'd to start in 1986.
2.12 The forecasts given in Table 1 show that imports will account for about 44% of total natural gas consumption/or 8% of total energy consumption, if it is assumed that the current negotiations for gas supplies from the USSR with Italy and Belgium lead to an agreement .
2.13 Assuming full contractual quantities for imports from the USSR, (which are slightly above those given in Table 1) and assuming
agreements with Belgium and Italy, gas imports from the USSR would represent about 19% of total Community gas supplies and less than 4% of total energy supplies.
Imports from Norway would account for about 12% of Community natural gas consumption, imports from Algeria 10%, from Libya about 1%, and the remaining 2% is accounted for by possible new third
country suppliers. The percentages for individual Member States vary quite widely but in no case would the share of natural gas from the USSR, which would be the\largest third country supplier, exceed one third of .the total gas consumption in the importing country.
The pattern of consumption is also forecast to change somewhat over the next decade . For the Community as awhole the share of gas
consumed by the domestic and commercial sector is forecast to increase from a current' value of about 44% to 48% by '1990. This
growth in share is mainly at the expense of the share held
by electricity generation. Whilst this shift reflects a likely increased premium use of natural gas, it will also tend to increase the cost of supply because of the additional costs associated with the smaller but more numerous domestic consumer and his more seasonal pattern of demand.
 2.15 Beyond 1990 more diversification is expected as the new sources with which Community gas undertakings are currently holding exploratory discussions or negotiations are developed and begin deliveries. Possible new sources of supply to the Community include Canada, some African countries including the Cameroun and Nigeria and some Middle East states including Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
2.16 However, because of the need to fully consider the technical, economic
and environmental aspects of such very large projects and the
considerable lead times for their development, none of these sources
could supply gas to the Community before the end of the decade at the earliest.
2.17 There is also considerable potential 'for^additional Norwegian supplies in the' longer term, although there would be formidable technical
problems to be overcome and very large investments to be made. The Norwegian Government is also concerned that the wider economic and environmental implications of oil and gas development policy are fully considered .
2.18 Depending on the progress in developing such new sources of supply, as ,
well as the development of production within the Community, it is \
estimated that total Community consumption in the year 2000 could be
between 280 to 320 milliard cubic metresv and natural gas would then hold s
its current share of about 18% of total energy consumption.
2.19 One of the key factors in the long term development of natural gas will undoubtedly be the price of imports from third countries . In general , as sources of gas further from the Community are considered, so the costs involved tend to rise . Of course , for a viable project , the gas traded must give a reasonable return on investment for the developer, but the price of the gas must also be such as to remain competitive
on the final consumer's market, after allowing for all the costs of transport and distribution.
At the presentation at the 16th March 1982 Council of the Commission 's previous document on natural gas supply security ( 1 ) the Council noted
that the Commission would carry out further studies into this subject
and report on its findings. A meeting of Member States' experts was then convened by the Commission'* to decide upon an approach to adopt for the further studies. It was agreed that a scenario approach would be the
most suitable and a set of scenario conditions was agreed by Member States.
These conditions gave scenarios of an interruption of 10% and 25% in normal forecast natural gas supplies, expressed at an annual rate, for a 6 month winter period in the reference year chose/i C1990). Furthermore, Member States were asked to examine how they could deal with such interruptions in both a normal and a severe winter . .
A questionnaire based on these scenarios was subsequently sent out to Member States and these were completed and returned to the Commission. The questionn­ aire replies were then analysed by the Commission and discussed with Member States . . They form the basis of the general conclusions on natural gas supply security contained in the following sections of this report.
The results of the scenario exercise show that the gas industry in the Member
States of the Community is able to deal with all the scenarios examined with only some
limited peak supply problems in some of the countries, in the most extreme circumstances. As regards the Member States which are most reliant on imports from outside the Community (see Table 1) the gas industry in these countries have taken particular care to ensure security of supplies and indeed they would be able to deal with an even more severe shortfall in supplies than that represented by the most extreme scenario.
All of the types of measures to deal with a shortfall in qas supplies listed in' the Commission 's previous Communications ( 1 ) would be used by different Member States
although the exact combinations vary widely. Much depends on what criteria are used to guide the gas industry in dealing with shortfall in supplies in terms of economic optimisation and operating procedures, bearing in mind that in
reality the duration of the shortfall and the type of winter faced would not
TT) C0M(82)45 final "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning measures to enhance the security of natural gas supplies to the Community".
be known at the beginning of the interruption period. Indeed in the severe winter scenario the picture is complicated by the need to use emergency
resources for both the increased demand from cold weather and to make up the shortfall in supplies . 1
3.6.The scenario results show, however, that for the Community as a whole, the measure which makes the greatest contribution to making up the shortfall in supplies is storage, which would make up about one third of the shortfall
under each of the scenarios. The next largest contribution is made by
spare production capacity, which would pleV roughly an equal role in the
10% scenarios but a relatively smaller role in the 25% scenarios.
Flexibility on import contracts would be usfed in only a few countries, although
it makes a major contribution in these cases. The use of interruptible contracts is relatively small, meeting in the 10% scenarios around one eighth of the shortfall in supplies, although their role increases significantly in the.
4.1. Whilst the analysis described above illustrates that the gas industry in the Member States of the Community can deal with a major interruption in supplies through the use .of a variety of measures, additional measures to enhance supply security should also be fully pursued.
Firstly, there are the long term measures to increase supply security as in the Commission 's previous Communications :
- diversification of imports
- development of SN6 ( Substitute Natural Gas )
Diversification of Imports
4.3. Several Member States attach considerable importance to this, long term measure to increase supply security and there are preliminary talks or negotiations underway with several .possible new suppliers as mentioned in Section 2.
Whilst diversification , like the other two long-term measures , is unlikely to
make a significant impact in this decade, present efforts should be fully \
maintained, and the Commission will continue to watch progress closely. \
4.4. The Commission's previous Communication on natural gas outlined the need to achieve a long term balance between the rate of indigenous production and
natural gas reserves. The most scope for increasing or extending the contrib­ ution of indigenous production therefore lies in further exploration to increase: the known resource base. Both of the two major Community natural gas producers, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, are encouraging further exploration j with the hope of increasing their known resources which underpin production. | Exploration is also under way in other Member States although the possibility
of major new finds is considered less likely.
relatively very little natural gas has been produced from depths than 5000 metres although many productive fields in Europe lie 3000 and 4000 metres . Recently , however , there have been a number
of theories advanced that suggest very substantial quantities of gas exist at greater depths. Earlier this year the Commission organised a seminar to discuss these theories and invited representatives of the Member States and
leading industry and academic* experts . Following this seminar a study group
will be established by the Commission, including representatives of the Member States and Norway, to examine the approach and information required to evaluate the potential of "deep gas". If these initial investigations are sufficiently encouraging it would then be appropriate to consider the next step such as a preliminary geological survey, which could benefit from Community aid. Whilst the Commission is aware of the rather speculative nature of an investigation into "deep gas", it is exactly this fact which makes a step by step approach, at Community level , so appropriate . .
4.6. The production of Substitute Natural Gas CSNG) from coal is again a long term possibility, jwhich could make a contribution to future gas supplies if the . technology can be developed to an economically viable stage. This depends to some extent on the future evolution of gas prices, but in any case research on SNG
represents something of an insurance policy and should be fully pursued. With the
softening of the energy market some SNG projects have recently been abandoned but it would be unfortunate if short term considerations prevented the development
of a possibly' viable long term option . The Commission , indeed , continues to give financial support for gasification projects in the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom as well as for underground gasification projects in Belgium .and France .
Further Co-operation at Community Level
4.7. The ability of Member States to deal with a major interruption in supplies relies on existing and planned measures undertaken by the gas industry in the individual Member States . It cannot , however , be excluded that some Member States could be affected more severely than others by a shortfall from outside supply sources and in such a case a degree of pooling of resources by Member States would further enhance the security of supply.
 could be demonstrated .
4.8. It is understandable that a precise commitment may be difficult to make in advance, particularly since the gas industry is essentially a commercial activity, but in exceptional circumstances there may be a need for such action . With the different measures available to individual . Member States it is clear that there could be considerable scope for one Member State to help another, in addition to existing agreements.
4.9. The one physical constraint which could prevent such further co-operation is
the inability of the gas transport system to re-allocate resources as required. However, the European gas grid is already highly integrated, although there
may be a need for some further reinforcements to cope with the dislocation of a major supply shortfall .
4.10. In any event, the advantages of any further measures in terms of security of
supply must be balanced against the extra cost. For this reason further links to enhance supply security which would also accomodate new supply patterns-
would be more likely to be justifiable . Such could be the case , for example , if there was a project for the export of Norwegian gas to continental customers
via a route through the UK and additional benefits in terms of security of supply
4.11 . The Commission is anxious to explof\e this area of additional co-operation at
the Community level in more detail and proposes to undertake a Series of studies into the different possibilities. The Commission also proposes to establish
in conjunction with Member States * representatives and industry experts , a . framework to - advi se, on an ad hoc basis, in the case where a major interruption
in supplies from outside the Community could occur.
That the possibilities for further co-operation at Community level on the security of natural gas supplies be explored. This includes studies into possible assistance between Member States in the case of difficulties in supplies from outside the Community, the adequacy
.of the natural gas transport system in this respect and studies
into the prospects for the exploitation of "deep gas" in the Community.
The Council is requested to agree the following conclusions:
(i) Natural gas will continue to play an important role in meeting Community energy needs, in diversifying the Community's energy
supplies and in helping to reduce the Community's dependence on oil .
(ii) Very considerable efforts are in' hand in the gas industry of
the Member States to assure the security of natural gas supplies. These measures could deal with a major shortfall in supplies with only very limited effects on the final consumer.
(iii) That the following measures continue to be fully pursued within Member States to further enhance the security of natural gas supplies in the long ternk:\
- diversification of imports
- development of Substitute Natural Gas (SNG).
(v)'That the Commission should establish, in conjunction with Member States' representatives and industry experts, a group to be consulted, on an ad hoc basis, in the case where a major interruption in supplies from outside the Community could occur.
45,0 16,5 _ 16,5 _ Irland 2,1 2,1 - - - - - -
42.9 3.1 Italië 45.5 7.8 Nederland 38.0 75.8
Ierland 2.1 2.1 - -
 Communication from the Commission to the Council on Community natural gas supplies
Council noted the Commission's analysis and invited the Commission to study this area in more detail, taking into account the views of the Member States .
1.2 In line with this invitation- the Commission presented a Communication on the security of natural gas supplies to the Community(2) to the Council of the 16th March 1982. This Communication had been prepared after consultation with Member States' experts and reviewed the broad types of measures available to enhance the security of natural gas suppli es .
1.3 The Council welcomed the Commission's further work in this area and also recognised the growing role played by natural gas in meeting
the Community's energy needs and reducing the Community's dependence on oil. The Council also noted that the Commission would carry out further studies in order to make any specific proposals judged necessary to reinforce natural gas supply security to the Community.
1.4 The present Communication briefly reviews the development and outlook for natural gas in the Community and summarises the Commission's further work on supply security, in particular the work undertaken
in co-operation with Member States since the March 1982 Council .
(1 ) C0M(81 ) 530 final "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning natural gas"
(2) COM(82) 45 final "Communication from the Commission to the Council concerning measures to enhance the security of natural gas supplies to the Community"
..... ... (1) 1.1 In its Communication on natural gas
to the Council of the 27th October 1981 the Commission drew attention to the changing pattern of the Community's natural gas supplies and the growing contribution of imports of gas from outside the Community. The
The role of natural gas in the Community has grown rapidly over the past two decades and natural gas now meets about 18% of Community energy needs compared to only 7% as recently as 1970. This rapid growth in natural gas consumption was largely based on the considerable reserves discovered in the Netherlands , the
leading producer in the Community, and the subsequent finds in the UK sector of the North Sea .
The growth in natural gas consumption has made an important contribution to the diversification of the Community 's energy supplies , and in particular has helped
to reduce the over-dependence on oil. This is illustrated by the growth in natural gas consumption from 153 milliard cubic metres(1) in 1973, the time of the first oil shock, to a peak consumption of 226 milliard cubic metres reached in 1979,
compared to a decline in oil consumption over the same period.
More recently, the part of imports from outside the Community in total natural gas supplies has also grown rapidly. In 1977 imports from third countries accounted for about 11% of total natural gas supplies, a proportion which had reached 21% two years later .
In 1980, however, Community natural gas consumption fell for the first time, reflecting price developments and uncertainty surrounding some contracts for imports from third countries , together with a worsening economic environment .
Current levels of Community natural gas consumption continue to fall with consumption in 1981 at 214 milliard cubic metres showing a slight decline for the second year in succession . The picture varies between Member States , however , showing the different impact of energy saving measures and substitution by alternative energies , economic recession and progress on major new import contracts . In France, for example, consumption in 1981 grew by more than 4% over the previous year whilst the Federal Republic of Germany showed a decline of more than 6%.
Natural Gas Imports from Third Countries as :
of Germany
Estimated Imports from Third Countries
Table 1 - Community Natural Gas Supplies 1990
% of
% of
( 1 ) Based on forecasts for importers
(3) Under negotiation. Quantity given would be the estimated take in 1990.
NotesCiXhe sum of the imports given by source country is not necessarily equal to total imports as the source of some supplies is not yet settled .
not yet Government approved
(i i ) Forecasts based on expert group work . Not necessarily official Member State forecasts .
2.6. These recent developments are also reflected in a reduction in the
forecast for total Community natural gas consumption for 1990; from the
1981 forecast of 292 milliard cubic metres to the latest forecast of 273 milliard cubic metres. This decline in the forecast for natural gas consumption is
mainly reflected in a reduction in the forecast for imports from third countries.
2.7. The pattern of Community natural gas supplies forecast for 1990 is given in Table 1 . This shows that about 56% of total Community consumption will be accounted for by indigenous production. The balance will be imported from existing suppliers to the Community, namely Algeria, Norway, the USSR and,
for relatively small quantities of gas to Italy , Libya .
2.8. The contracts for supplies from Algeria have recently been the subject of re-negotiation with settlements reached for the contracts with Distrigaz of
Belgium, Gaz de France and SNAM of Italy. The contract for Libyan gas supplies to Italy is still under re-negotiation .
2.9. Contracts for additional supplies have been agreed or are under negotiation between several undertakings from within the Community and Soyusgasexport
of the USSR. A consortium of gas undertakings from within the Federal Republic
of Germany have agreed new contracts for a total of 10.5 milliard cubic metres
a year from the USSR from 1984 for 25 years. Negotiations on the supply of up
to 0.7 milliard cubic metres a year of natural gas for West Berlin are currently taking place. A contract for 8 milliard cubic metres a year between Gaz de France and Scyuj gasexport has also been agreed .
2.10. Heads of agreement for a contract of 8 milliard cubic metres a year between SNAM of Italy and Soyusgasexport have been drawn up, although the new contract has
not yet been approved by the Italian Government. Talks are continuing between
the Belgian and Soviet administrations concerning the contract for gas supplies to Distrigaz of Belgium although,in any event, the quantities would be under the
5 milliard cubic metres initially envisaged. Greece is currently giving consideration to imports of 1 to 2 milliard cubic metres a year from the USSR, although this uould not be via the same pipeline.
2.11 Recently a new contract was signed by a consortium of undertakings from the Federal Republic of Germany, France, the Netherlands and Belgium for a total of 3.5 milliard cubic metres a year from fields in the Norwegian sector of the North Sea. This gas will come via
the new Norwegian gas gathering pipeline currently under construction and deliveries are planned to start in 1986.
2.12 The forecasts given in Table 1 show that imports will account for about 44% of total natural gas consumption,or 8% of total energy consumption, if it is assumed that the current negotiations for gas supplies from the USSR with Italy and Belgium lead to an agreement.
2.13 Assuming full contractual quantities for imports from the USSR, (which are slightly above those given in Table 1) and assuming
agreements with Belgium and Italy, gas imports from the USSR would represent about 19% of total Community gas supplies and less than
4% of total energy supplies .
Imports from Norway would account for about 12% of Community natural gas consumption, imports from Algeria 10%, from Libya about 1%, and the remaining 2% is accounted for by possible new third
country suppliers. The percentages for individual Member States vary quite widely but in no case would the share of natural gas from the USSR, which would be the largest third country supplier, exceed one third of the total gas consumption in the importing country.
2.14 The pattern of consumption is also forecast to change somewhat over the next decade . For the Community as a whole the share of gas
consumed by the domestic and commercial sector is forecast to increase from a current value of about 44% to 48% by 1990. This
growth in share is mainly at the expense of the share held
by electricity generation. Whilst this shift reflects a likely increased premium use of natural gas, it will also tend to increase the cost of supply because of the additional costs associated with the smaller but more numerous domestic consumer and his more seasonal pattern of demand.
2.15 Beyond 1990 more diversification is expected as the new sources with which Community gas undertakings are currently holding exploratory discussions or . negotiations are developed and begin deliveries . Possible new sources of supply to the Community include Canada, some African countries including the Cameroun and Nigeria and some Middle East states including Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.
2.16 However, because of the need to fully consider the technical, economic
and environmental aspects of such very large projects and the
considerable lead times for their development, none of these sources
could supply gas to the Community before the end of the decade at the earliest .
2.17 There is also considerable potential for additional Norwegian supplies in the longer term, although there would be formidable technical problems to be overcome and very large investments to be made. The Norwegian Government is also concerned that the wider economic and environmental implications of oil and gas development policy are fully consi dered .
2.18 Depending on the progress in developing such new sources of supply, as well as the development of production within the Community, it is estimated that total Community consumption in the year 2000 could be between 280 to 3?0 milliard cubic metres, and natural gas would then hold its current share of about 18% of total energy consumption.
2.19 One of the key factors in the long term development of natural gas will undoubtedly be the price of imports from third countries . In general , as sources of gas further from the Community are considered, so the
costs involved tend to rise . Of course , for a viable project , the gas traded must give a reasonable return on investment for the developer, but the price of the gas must also be such as to remain competitive
on the final consumer's market, after allowing for all the costs of transport and distribution .
At the presentation at the 16th March 1982 Council of the Commission 's
These conditions
winter period in
were asked to examine how they could deal with such interruptions in both a normal and a severe winter .
A questionnaire based on these scenarios was subsequently sent out to Member States and these were completed and returned to the Commission. The questionn­ aire replies were then analysed by the Commission and discussed with Member States. They form the basis of the general conclusions on natural gas supply security contained in the following sections of this report.
The results of the scenario exercise show that the gas industry in the Member
States of the Community is able to deal with all the scenarios examined with only some
limited peak supply problems in some of the countries, in the most extreme
circumstances. As regards the Member States which are most reliant on imports
from outside the Community (see Table 1) the gas industry in these countries
have taken particular care to ensure security of supplies and indeed they would be able to deal with an even more severe shortfall in supplies than that
represented by the most extreme scenario .
All of the types of measures to deal with a shortfall in qas supplies listed in the Commi ssion ' s previ ous Communi cat ions ( 1 ) would be used by di f ferent Member States
although the exact combinations vary widely. Much depends on what criteria are used to guide the gas industry in dealing with shortfall in supplies in terms of economic optimisation and operating procedures, bearing in mind that in
reality the duration of the shortfall and the type of winter faced would not
(1) C0M(82)45 final "Communication from the Commission to the Council concernim measures to enhance the security of natural gas supplies to the Community".
previous document on natural gas supply security ( 1 ) the
that the Commission would carry out further studies into . and report on its findings. A meeting of Member States' convened by the Commission to decide upon an approach to
Council noted this subject experts was then adopt for the would be the
further studies. It was agreed that a scenario approach
most suitable and a set of scenario conditions was agreed by Member States .
gave scenarios of an interruption of 10% and 25% in normal gas supplies, expressed at an annual rate, for a 6 month
the reference year chosen ( 1990 ). Furthermore , Member States
be known at the beginning of the interruption period. Indeed in the severe winter scenario the picture is complicated by the need to use emergency resources for both the increased demand from cold weather and to make up the shortfall in supplies .
3.6.The scenario results show, however, that for the Community as a whole, the
measure which makes the greatest contribution to making up the shortfall in
supplies is storage, which would make up about one third of the shortfall under each of the scenarios. An almost equal contribution is made by
spare production capacity, which would play a more significant-
role in the 10% scenarios than in the 25% scenarios. Flexibility
on import contracts would be used in only a few countries, although
it makes a major contribution in these cases . The use of i nterrupti ble contracts
is relatively small, meeting in the 10% scenarios around one eighth of the shortfall in supplies, although their role increases significantly in the 25% scenarios .
4.1 . Whilst the analysis described above illustrates that the gas industry in the Member States of the Community can deal with a major interruption in supplies through the use of a variety of measures, additional measures to enhance supply security should also be fully pursued.
4.2. Firstly, there are the long term measures to increase supply security as in the Commission 's previous Communications :
- diversification of imports
- development of SNG ( Substitute Natural Gas )
Diversification of Imports
4.3. Several Member States attach considerable importance to this long term measure to increase supply security and there are preliminary talks or negotiations underway with several possible new suppliers as mentioned in Section 2.
Whilst diversification , like the other two long-term measures , is unlikely to make a significant impact in this decade, present efforts should be fully maintained, and the Commission will continue to watch progress closely.
4.4. The Commission's previous Communication on natural gas outlined the need to achieve a long term balance between the rate of indigenous production and natural gas reserves. The most scope for increasing or extending the contrib­ ution of indigenous production therefore lies in further exploration to increase the known resource base. Both of the two major Community natural gas producers, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, are encouraging further exploration
with the hope of increasing their known resources which underpin production. Exploration is also under way in other Member States although the possibility of major new finds is considered less likely.
4.5. To date relatively very little natural gas has been produced from depths greater than 5000 metres although many productive fields in Europe lie between 3000 and 4000 metres . Recently , however , there have been a number
of theories advanced that suggest very substantial quantities of gas exis^: at greater depths. Earlier this year the Commission organised a seminar to discuss these theories and invited representatives of the Member States and
leading industry and academic experts. Following this seminar a study group
will be established by the Commission, including representatives of the Member States and Norway, to examine the approach and information required to evaluate the potential of "deep gas". If these initial investigations are sufficiently encouraging it would then be appropriate to consider the next step such as a preliminary geological survey , which could benefit from Community aid . Whilst the Commission is aware of the rather speculative nature of an. investigation into " deep gas ", it is exactly this fact which makes a step by step approach , at Community level , so appropriate .
4.6. The production of Substitute Natural Gas (SNG) from coal is again a long term possibility, which could make a contribution to future gas supplies if the technology can be developed to an economically viable stage. This depends to some extent on the future evolution of gas prices, but in any case research on SNG represents something of an insurance policy and should be fully pursued. With the softening of the energy market some SNG projects have recently been abandoned but it would be unfortunate if short term considerations prevented the development
of a possibly viable long term option . The Commission , indeed , continues to give financial support for gasification projects in the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom as well as for underground gasification projects in Belgium and France .
Further Co-operation at Community Level
4.7. The ability of Member States to deal with a major interruption in supplies relies on existing and planned measures undertaken by the gas industry in the individual Member States . It cannot , however , be excluded that some Member States could be affected more severely than others by a shortfall from outside supply sources and in such a case a degree of pooling of resources by Member States would further enhance the security of supply .
4.8. It is understandable that a precise commitment may be difficult to make in advance, particularly since the gas industry is essentially a commercial activity, but i.n exceptional circumstances there may be a need for such action. With the different measures available to individual. Member States it is clear that there could be considerable scope for one Member State to help another , in addition to existing agreements .
4.9. The one physical constraint which could prevent such further co-operation is the inability of the gas transport system to re-allocate resources as required. However , the European gas grid is already highly integrated , although there
may be a need for some further reinforcements to cope with the dislocation of
a major supply shortfall .
4.10. In any event, the advantages of any further measures in terms of security of supply must be balanced against the extra cost. For this reason further links
to enhance supply security which would also accomodate new supply patterns
would be more likely to be justifiable . Such could be the case , for example , if there was a project for the export of Norwegian gas to continental customers
via a route through the UK and additional benefits in terms of security of supply could be demonstrated .
4.11 . The Commission is anxious to explore this area of additional co-operation at
the Community level in more detail and proposes to undertake a series of studies into the different possibilities. The Commission also proposes to establish
in conjunction with Member States' representatives and industry experts, a framework to advise, on an ad hoc basis, in the case where a major interruption
in supplies from outside the Community could occur.
The Council is requested to agree the following conclusions:
(i) Natural gas will continue to play an important role in meeting Community energy needs, in diversifying the Community's energy
supplies and in helping to reduce the Community's dependence on oi I .
(ii) Very considerable efforts are in hand in the gas industry of the Member States to assure the security of natural gas supplies. On the basis of information returned by the Member States the measures currently envisaged could deal with a major interruption in supplies
(at least 25% during a period of 6 consecutive months), with the minimum of repercussions for the final consumer. The gas deficit would then be partially covered by supplementary supplies of oil.
The Commission will continue to follow the evolution of the situation
in consultation with Member States .
(iii) That the following measures continue Member States to further enhance the supplies in the long term :
- diversification of imports
- development of Substitute Natural Gas (SNG).
(iv) That the possibilities for further co-operation at Community Level on
the security of natural gas supplies be explored. This includes studies into possible assistance between Member States in the case of difficulties in supplies from outside the Community, the adequacy of the natural gas transport system in this respect and studies into the prospects for the exploitation of " deep gas " in the Community .
(v) That the Commission should establish, in conjunction with Member States' representatives and industry experts, a group to be consulted, on an ad hoc basis, in the case where a major interruption in supplies from outside the Community could occur.
to be fully pursued within security of natural gas
exploration and development
6I.5 45-0 Irland 2.1 2.1
•Hyskland 68.0 17-5 22.5 28.0 M
